
3  3433  08176718  2 


\ 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2008  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/federalistonconOOhami 



FEDERALIST 


THE  NEW  CONSTITUTION, 

WRITTEN  IN  THE  YEAR  1788, 


    Mr.  HAMILTON,  Mr.  MADISON,  and  Mr.  JAY 


AN  APPENDIX, 


CONTAININO 


THE  LETTERS  OF  PACIFICUS  AND  HELVIDIUS, 


PROCLAMATION  OF  NEUTRALITY  OF  1793 ; 

ALSO,  THE 

ORIGINAL  ARTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION,  AND  THE  CON- 
STITUTION OF  THE  UNITED  STATES, 

WITH  THE  AMENDMENTS  MADE  THERETO. 


A  NEW  EDITION. 

THE   NUMBERS   WRITTEN    BY    MR.   MADISON   CORRECTED   BY   HIMSELF. 


HALLO  WELL . 

miKTED  AND  PUBLMHED  BY  GLAZIER,  MA&amp;lSJtS  &amp;  ip^'' 


183JL 


t^ins. 


DISTRICT  OF  COLUiMBIA,  to  wit: 

Be  it  rkmembkrfd,  Thai  on  the  Eighteenth  Hay  of  May.  in  the  forty- 

I     y     third  year  of  the  Indrppridpiicc  of  the  United  Stales  of  America, 

'■     '    Jacok  (jiUKoN,  Junior,  of  ilie  said  (lisirici,  hath  deposited  in  iliis 

office,  the  tiile  of  a  bof&gt;k.  die  rif^hi  whereof  he  claims  as  proprietor,  in  the 

words  and  fiijures  following,  to  w  it  ; 

"  The  Federalist,  on  the  New  Constitution,  written  in  the  year  1788,  by 
*'  Mr  Hamilton,  Mr.  Madison,  and  Mr.  Jay  :  with  an  Appendix,  containing 
"  the  Letters  of  Pacificus  and  Holvidius,  on  the  Proclamation  of  Neutrality 
"of  1793;  also  ihe  original  Articles  of  Confederation,  and  the  Constitution 
"  of  the  United  Stales,  wiili  the  aniendnienls  made  thereto.  A  new  edition. 
"  'I'he  numbers  written  by  Mr.  Madison  corrected  by  liimself '' 

In  conformity  to  the  act  of  the  Congress  of  the  United  Slates,  enlilled  "  An 
act  for  the  encouragement  of  learning, by  securing  the  copies  of  Maps,  Charts, 
and  Books,  to  the  authors  and  proprietors  of  such  copies,  during  the  times 
therein  mentioned." 

G.  DENEALE, 

Clerk  of  the  District  of  Columbia. 


&gt; :     '•'■%*"■ 


:*^ 


PREFATORY  REMARKS. 


The  present  edition  of  the  Federalist  contains  all  the  numbers 
of  that  work  as  revised  by  their  authors;  and  it  is  the  only  one  to 
Avhich  the  remark  will  apply.  Former  editions,  indeed,  it  is  under- 
stood, had  the  advantage  of  a  revisal  from  Mr.  Hamihon  and  Mr. 
Jay,  but  the  numbers  written  by  Mr.  Madison  still  remained  in  the 
state  in  which  they  originally  issued  from  the  press,  and  contained 
many  inaccuracies.  The  publisher  of  this  volume  has  been  so  fortu- 
nate as  to  procure  from  Mr.  Madison  the  coprof  the  work  which  that 
gentleman  had  preserved  for  himself,  with  corrections  of  the  papers, 
of  which  he  is  the  author,  in  his  own  hand.  The  publication  of  the 
Federalist,  therefore,  may  be  considered,  in  this  instance,  as  per- 
fect ;  and  it  is  confidently  presented  to  the  public  as  a  standard 
edition. 

Some  altercation  has  occasionally  taken  place  concerning  the 
authorship  of  certain  numbers  of  the  Federalist,  a  few  of  those  now 
ascertained  to  have  been  written  by  Mr.  Madison  having  been  claim- 
ed for  Mr.  Hamilton.  It  is  difficult  to  perceive  the  propriety  or 
utility  of  such  an  altercation  ;  for  whether  we  assign  the  disputed 
papers  to  the  one  or  to  the  other,  they  are  all  admitted  to  be  genu- 
ine, and  there  will  still  remain  to  either  of  these  gentlemen  an  un- 
questioned number  sufiicient  to  establish  for  him  a  solid  reputation 
for  sagacity,  wisdom,  and  patriotism.  It  is  not  the  extent  of  a 
man's  writings,  but  the  excellence  of  them,  that  constitutes  his  claim 
upon  his  contemporaries  and  upon  posterity  for  the  character  of 
intellectual  superiority  :  and  to  the  reader,  the  diiference  in  this 
case  is  nothing,  since  he  will  receive  instruction  from  the  perusal, 
let  them  have  been  written  by  whom  they  may. 

The  present  moment  may  be  regarded  as  peculiarly  favourable 
for  the  republication  of  this  work.  Mr.  Hamilton  is  dead  ;  and 
both  Mr.  Jay  and  Mr.  Madison  have  retired  from  the  busy  scenes 
of  life.  The  atmosphere  of  political  passions  through  which  their 
principles  and  actions  were  lately  viewed  has  disappeared,  and  has 
been  replaced  by  one  more  pure  and  tranquil.    Their  political  vir- 


4  PREFATOltY  REMARKS. 

tues  are  iioav  inanifest  and  almost  universally  admitted.  Time, 
which  tests  the  tnitli  of  every  thing,  has  been  just  to  their  merits, 
and  converted  the  reproaches  of  party  spirit  into  expressions  of 
gratitude  for  the  usefulness  of  their  labours.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that 
neitlier  a  mistaken  zeal  of  friendship  for  departed  worth,  nor  an 
inclination  to  flatter  living  virtue,  will  induce  any  one  to  disturb 
this  growing  sentinient  of  veneration. 

To  the  Federalist  the  publisher  has  added  the  Letters  of  Pacifi- 
cus,  written  by  Mr.  Hamilton,  and  an  answer  to  those  Letters  by 
Helvidius,  from  the  pen  of  Mr.  Madison.  As  these  two  eminent 
men  had  laboured  in  unison  to  inculcate  the  general  advantages  to 
be  derived  from  the  Constitution,  it  cannot  be  deemed  irrelevant 
to  show  in  u  hat  i)articiilar  point,  as  it  respects  the  practical  con- 
struction of  that  instrument,  they  afterwards  differed.  The  com- 
munity is,  perhaps,  ahyays  more  enlightened  by  the  candid  criti- 
cism of  intelligcirt  conflicting  minds  than  it  is  by  their  concurring 
opinions. 

In  this  collection,  the  Act  of  Confederation  and  the  Constitu- 
tion of  the  United  States  also  find  an  appropriate  place.  They 
are  the  text  upon  which  the  Federalist  is  a  commentary.  By 
comparing  these  two  national  constitutions,  and  reflecting  upon 
the  results  of  each,  the  defects  of  the  former  and  the  perfections  of 
the  latter  will  be  easily  perceived  ;  and  the  American  people 
may  be  thence  instructed,  that  however  prudence  may  dictate  the 
necessity  of  caution  in  admitting  innovations  upon  established  in- 
stitutions, yet  that  it  is  at  all  times  advisable  to  listen  with  attention 
to  the  suggestions  and  propositions,  of  temperate  and  experienced 
statesmen,  for  the  cure  of  ])olitical  evils  and  the  promotion  of  the 
general  welfare. 

The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  has  had,  in  the  sunshine 
of  peace  and  in  the  storm  of  war,  a  severe  but  impartial  trial,  and 
it  has  ami)ly  fulfilled  the  expectations  of  its  friends  and  com- 
pletely dissipated  the  fears  of  its  early  opponents.  It  may,  in 
truth,  be  asserted,  that  the  ten  first  declaratory  and  restrictive 
amendatory  clauses,  proposed  at  the  session  of  congress  which 
commenced  on  the  4th  of  March,  1789,  and  which  were  ratified 
by  the  legislatures  of  the  states,  fully  satisfied  the  scruples  of 
those  who  were  inimical  to  that  instrument  as  it  Avas  first  adopted, 
and  by  whom  the  amendments  were  considered  necessary  as  a 
safegard  for  religious  and  civil  libert3%  Thus,  and  still  further, 
amended,  the  Constitution,  as  a  great  rule  of  political  conduct, 
has  guided  the  public  authorities  of  the  United  States  through  the 
unprecedented  political  vicissitudes  and  the  perilous  revolutionary 


PREFATORY  REMARKS.  » 

commotions  wliich  have  agitated  the  human  race  for  the  last  quar- 
ter of  a  century,  to  a  condition  at  once  so  prosperous,  so  com- 
manding, and  so  happy,  that  it  has  wholly  outstripped  all  previous 
foresight  and  calculation.  When  we  look  back  upon  the  state  of 
inertness  in  which  we  repospd  under  the  Act  of  Confederation,  to 
the  languishment  of  our  commerce,  and  the  indifference  with 
which,  in  that  situation,  we  were  regarded  by  foreign  governments, 
nnd  compare  that  disposition  of  things  with  the  energy  to  which 
we  were  subsequently  roused  by  the  operation  of  the  Constitu- 
tion;  with  the  vast  theatre  on  which,  under  the  influence  of  its 
provisions,  our  maritime  trade  has  been  actively  employed;  with 
the  freedom  and  plenty  which  we  enjoy  at  home,  the  respect 
entertained  for  the  American  name  abroad,  and  the  alacrity  with 
which  our  favour  and  friendship  are  sought  by  the  nations  of  the 
earth,  our  thankfulness  to  Providence  ought  to  know  no  bounds, 
and  to  the  able  men  who  framed  and  have  supported  the  Constitu- 
tion should  only  be  limited  by  those  paramount  considerations 
which  are  indispensable  to  the  perpetuation  and  increase  of  the 
blessings  which  have  been  already  realized. 

The  perspicuous  brevity  of  the  Constitution  has  left  but  little 
room  for  misinterpretation.  But  if  at  any  time  ardent  or  timid 
minds  have  exceeded  or  fallen  short  of  its  intentions  ;  if  the  pre- 
cision of  human  language  has,  in  the  formation  of  this  instrument, 
been  inadequate  to  the  expression  of  the  exact  ideas  meant  to  be 
conveyed  by  its  framers  ;  if  from  the  vehemence  of  party  spirit, 
it  has  been  warped  by  individuals,  so  as  to  incline  it  either  too 
much  towards  monarchy  or  towards  an  unmodified  democracy  ; 
let  us  console  ourselves  with  the  reflection,  that  however  these 
aberrations  may  have  transiently  prevailed,  the  essential  principles 
of  the  Representative  System  of  government  have  been  well  pre- 
served by  the  clearsighted  common  sense  of  the  people  ;  and  that 
our  aftections  all  concentre  in  one  great  object,  which  is  the 
improvement  and  glory  of  our  country. 

After  deriving  so  many  and  such  uncommon  benefits  from  the 
Constitution,  the  notion  of  an  eventual  dissolution  of  this  Union 
must  be  held,  by  every  person  of  unimpaired  intellect,  as  entirely 
visionary.  The  state  governments,  divested  of  scarcely  any  thing 
but  national  authority,  have  answered,  or  are  competent  to  ausweri 
every  purpose  of  melioration  within  the  boundaries  of  the  territory 
to  which  they  are  respectively  restricted  ;  whilst,  in  times  of  diflS- 
culty  and  danger,  acting  directly  upon  an  intimate  knowledge  of 
local  resources  and  feeling,  they  are  enabled  to  afford  efficient  aid 
to  the  exertions  of  the  national  government  in  the  defence  and 


6  PREFATORY  REMARKS. 

protection  of  tlie  republic.  These  truths  are  obvious  :  they  have 
been  demoiistratcd  in  times  of  domestic  tranquillity,  of  internal 
commotion,  and  of  foreign  hostility.  In  return,  the  advantages 
which  the  national  government  dispenses  to  the  several  states  are 
keenly  felt  and  higlily  relished.  AVhen  the  Constitution  was  rati- 
fied, Ilhode  Island  and  North  Carolina,  from  honest  but  mistaken 
convictions,  for  a  moment  witliheid  their  assent.  But  when  Con- 
gress proceeded  solemnly  to  enact  that  the  manufactures  of  those 
states  should  be  considered  as  foreign,  and  that  the  acts  laying  a 
duty  on  goods  imported  and  on  tonnage  should  extend  to  them, 
they  hastened,  with  a  discernment  quickened  by  a  sense  of  inter- 
est, and  at  the  same  time  honourable  to  their  patriotic  views,  to 
unite  themselves  to  the  Confederation. 

The  only  alteration  of  importance  which  the  Constitution  has 
undergone  since  its  adoption,  is  that  which  changes  the  mode  of 
electing  the  President  and  Vice-President.  It  is  believed  that,  all 
things  being  duly  weighed,  the  alteration  has  been  beneficial.  If 
it  enables  a  man  to  aim  with  more  directness,  at  the  first  office  in 
the  gift  of  the  people,  it  equally  tends  to  prevent  the  recurrence 
of  an  unpleasant  contest  for  precedency,  between  the  partisans  of 
any  two  individuals,  in  Congress,  to  which  body  in  the  last  resort, 
the  choice  is  referred.  Besides,  whether  the  Constitution  should 
prescribe  it  or  not,  the  people  themselves  would  invariably  desig- 
nate the  man  they  intended  for  chief  magistrate  :  a  reflection 
which  may  serve  to  convince  us  that  the  change  in  question  is 
more  in  farm  than  mfact. 

To  conclude,  the  appearance  of  so  perfect  an  edition  of  the 
Federalist  as  the  present  must  be  allowed  to  be,  may  be  regarded 
as  the  more  fortunate,  as  the  Journal  of  the  Convention  that  fram- 
ed the  Constitution  is  about  to  be  published,  and  a  new  light  to  be 
thus  shed  upon  the  composition  of  that  instrument.  The  Act  of 
Confederation,  and  the  Constitution  itself,  have  been  by  permis- 
sion of  Mr.  Adams,  the  Secretary  of  State,  carefully  compared 
with  the  originals  deposited  in  the  Office  of  that  department;  and 
their  accuracy  may  therefore  be  relied  on,  even  to  X\\Q  punctuation. 

City  of  Washington^ 
May,  1818, 


THE  FEDERALIST. 


NO.  I. 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

Introduction, 
After  full  experience  of  the  insufficiency  of  the  existing  fed- 
eral government,  you  are  invited  to  deliberate  upon  a  New  Con- 
stitution for  the  United  States  of  Anrjerica.  The  subject  speaks 
its  own  importance  ;  comprehending  in  its  consequences,  nothing 
less  than  the  existence  of  the  UNION,  the  safety  and  welfare  of 
the  parts  of  which  it  is  composed,  the  fate  of  an  empire,  in  many 
respects,  the  most  interesting  in  the  world.  It  has  been  frequent- 
ly remarked,  that  it  seems  to  have  been  reserved  to  the  people  of 
this  country  to  decide,  by  their  conduct  and  example,  the  impor- 
tant question,  whether  societies  of  men  are  really  capable  or  not,  of 
establishino-  good  government  from  reflection  and  choice,  or  wheth- 
er they  are  for  ever  destined  to  depend  for  their  political  constitu- 
tions, on  accident  and  force.  If  there  be  any  truth  in  the  re- 
mark, the  crisis  at  which  we  are  arrived  may,  with  propriety,  be  re- 
garded as  the  period  when  that  decision  is  to  be  made  ;  and  a 
•wrong  election  of  the  part  we  shall  act,  may,  in  this  view,  deserve 
to  be  considered  as  the  general  misfortune  of  mankind. 

This  idea,  by  adding  the  inducements  of  philanthropy  to  those 
of  patriotism,  will  heighten  the  solicitude  which  all  considerate 
and  good  men  must  feel  for  the  event.  Happy  will  it  be  if  our 
choice  should  be  directed  by  a  judicious  estimate  of  our  true  in- 
terests, uninfluenced  by  considerations  foreign  to  the  public  good. 
But  this  is  more  ardently  to  be  wished  for,  than  seriously  to  be  ex- 
pected. The  plan  offered  to  our  deliberations,  affects  too  many 
particular  interests,  innovates  upon  too  many  local  institutions, 
not  to  involve  in  its  discussion  a  variety  of  objects  extraneous  to 
its  merits,  and  of  views,  passions,  and  prejudices  little  favourable 
to  the  discovery  of  truth. 

Among  the  most  formidable  of  the  obstacles  which  the  new  con- 
stitution will  have  to  encounter,  may  readily  be  distinguished  the 


8  THE  FEDERALIST. 

obvious  interest  of  a  certain  class  of  men  in  every  state  to  resist 
all  changes  which  may  hazard  a  diminution  of  the  power,  emolu- 
ment, and  consequence  of  the  offices  they  hold  under  the  state  es- 
tablishments....and  the  perverted  ambition  of  another  class  of  men, 
who  will  either  hope  to  aggrandize  themselves  by  the  confusions 
of  their  country,  or  will  flatter  themselves  with  fairer  prospects  of 
elevation  from  the  subdivision  of  the  empire  into  several  partial 
confederacies,  than  from  its  union  under  one  government. 

It  is  not,  however,  my  design  to  dwell  upon  observations  of  this 
nature.  I  am  aware  it  would  be  desingenuous  to  resolve  indis- 
criminately the  opposition  of  any  set  of  men  into  interested  or 
ambitious  views,  merely  because  their  situations  might  subject  them 
to  suspicion.  Candour  will  oblige  us  to  admit,  that  even  such  men 
may  be  actuated  by  upright  intentions  ;  and  it  cannot  be  doubted, 
that  much  of  the  opposition,  which  has  already  shown  itself,  or 
that  may  hereafter  make  its  appearance,  will  spring  from  sources 
blameless  at  least,  if  not  respectable.. ..the  honest  errors  of  minds 
led  astray  by  preconceived  jealousies  and  fears.  So  numerous  in- 
deed and  so  powerful  are  the  causes  which  serve  to  give  a  false 
bias  to  the  judgment,  that  we,  upon  many  occasions,  see  wise  and 
good  men  on  the  wrong  as  well  as  on  the  right  side  of  questions, 
of  the  first  magnitude  to  society.  This  circumstance,  if  duly  at- 
tended to,  would  always  furnish  a  lesson  of  moderation  to  those, 
who  are  engaged  in  any  controversy,  however  well  persuaded  of 
being  in  the  right.  And  a  further  reason  for  caution,  in  this  re- 
spect, might  be  drawn  from  the  reflection,  that  we  are  not  always 
sure,  that  those  who  advocate  the  truth  are  actuated  by  purer  prin- 
ciples than  their  antagonists.  Ambition,  avarice,  personal  ani- 
mosity, party  opposition,  and  many  other  motives,  not  more  laud- 
able than  these,  are  apt  to  operate  as  well  upon  those  who  sup- 
port, as  upon  those  who  oppose,  the  right  side  of  a  question. 
Were  there  not  even  these  inducements  to  moderation,  nothing 
could  be  more  ill  judged  than  that  intolerant  spirit,  which  has,  at 
all  times,  characterized  political  parties.  For,  in  politics  as  in  re- 
ligion, it  is  equally  absurd  to  aim  at  making  proselytes  by  fire  and 
sword.     Heresies  in  either  can  rarely  bo  cured  by  persecution. 

And  yet,  just  as  these  sentiments  must  appear  to  candid  men, 
we  have  already  sufticient  indications,  that  it  will  happen  in  this, 
as  in  all  former  cases  of  great  national  discussion.  A  torrent  of 
angry  and  malignant  passions  will  be  let  loose.  To  judge  from 
the  conduct  of  the  opposite  parties,  we  shall  be  led  to  conclude, 
that  they  will  mutually  hope  to  evince  the  justness  of  their  opin- 
ions, and  to  increase  the  number  of  their  converts,   by  the  loud- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  # 

ness  of  their  declamations,  and  by  the  bitterness  of  their  invec- 
tives. An  enlightened  zeal  for  the  energy  and  efficiency  of  gov- 
ernment, will  be  stigmatized  as  the  oftspring  of  a  temper  fond  of 
power,  and  hostile  to  the  principles  of  liberty.  An  over  scrupu- 
lous jealousy  of  danger  to  the  rights  of  the  people,  which  is  more 
commonly  the  fault  of  the  head  than  of  the  heart,  will  be  repre- 
sented as  mere  pretence  and  artifice. ...the  stale  bait  for  popularity 
at  the  expense  of  public  good.  It  will  be  forgotton,  on  the  one 
hand,  that  jealousy  is  the  usual  concomitant  of  violent  love,  and 
that  the  noble  enthusiasm  of  liberty  is  too  apt  to  be  infected  with 
a  spirit  of  narrow  and  illiberal  distrust.  On  the  other  hand,  it 
will  be  equally  forgotten,  that  the  vigour  of  government  is  essen- 
tial to  the  security  of  liberty  ;  that  in  the  contemplation  of  a  sound 
and  well-informed  judgment,  their  interests  can  never  be  separat- 
ed ;  and  that  a  dangerous  ambition  more  often  lurks  behind  the 
specious  mask  of  zeal  for  the  rights  of  the  people,  than  under  the 
forbidding  appearances  of  zeal  for  the  firmness  and  efficiency  of 
government.  History  will  teach  us,  that  the  former  has  been 
found  a  much  more  certain  road  to  the  introduction  of  despotism, 
than  the  latter,  and  that  of  those  men  who  have  overturned  the 
liberties  of  republics,  the  greatest  number  have  begun  their  ca- 
reer, by  paying  an  obsequious  court  to  the  people  ;  commencing 
demagogues,  and  ending  tyrants. 

In  the  course  of  the  preceding  observations  it  has  been  my  aim, 
fellow-citizens,  to  put  you  upon  your  guard  against  all  attempts, 
from  whatever  quarter,  to  influence  your  decision  in  a  matter  of 
the  utmost  moment  to  your  welfare,  by  any  impressions,  other  than 
those  which  may  result  from  the  evidence  of  truth.  You  will,  no 
doubt,  at  the  same  time,  have  collected  from  the  general  scope  of 
them,  that  they  proceed  from  a  source  not  unfriendly  to  the  new 
constitution.  Yes,  my  countrymen,  I  own  to  you,  that,  after  hav- 
ing given  it  an  attentive  consideration,  I  am  clearly  of  opinion,  it 
is  your  interest  to  adopt  it.  I  am  convinced,  that  this  is  the  safest 
course  for  your  liberty,  your  dignity,  and  your  happiness.  I  affect 
not  reserves  which  I  do  not  feel.  I  will  not  amuse  you  with  an 
appearance  of  deliberation,  when  I  have  decided.  I  frankly  ac- 
knowledge to  you  my  convictions,  and  I  will  freely  lay  before  you 
the  reasons  on  which  they  are  founded.  The  consciousness  of 
good  intentions  disdains  ambiguity.  I  shall  not  however  multiply 
professions  on  this  head.  My  motives  must  remain  in  the  deposi- 
tory of  my  own  breast :  my  arguments  will  be  open  to  all,  and 
may  be  judged  of  by  all.  They  shall  at  least  be  offered  in  a  spirit, 
which  will  not  disgrace  the  cause  of  truth. 


10  THE  FEDERALIST. 

I  propose,  in  a  series  of  papers,  to  discuss  the  following  inter- 
esting particulars....  T7«e  utility  of  the  UNION  to  your  political 
prosperity....  The  insufficiency  of  the  present  confederation  to  preserve 
that  Union....  The  necessity  of  a  government  at  least  equally  energetic 
with  the  one  proposed,  to  the  attainment  of  this  object....  The  conform- 
ity of  the  proposed  constitution  to  the  true  principles  of  republican 
government....Its  analogy  to  your  own  state  constitution....aind  lastly, 
The  additional  security,  which  its  adoption  will  afford  to  the  preserva- 
tion of  that  species  of  government,  to  liberty,  and  to  property. 

In  the  progress  of  this  discussion,  I  shall  endeavour  to  give  a 
satisfactory  answer  to  all  the  objections  which  shall  have  made 
their  appearance,  that  may  seem  to  have  any  claim  to  attention. 

It  may  perhaps  be  thought  superfluous  to  ofi:er  arguments  to 
prove  the  utility  of  the  UNION,  a  point,  no  doubt,  deeply  engrav- 
ed on  the  hearts  of  the  great  body  of  the  people  in  every  state, 
and  one  which,  it  may  be  imagined,  has  no  adversaries.  But  the 
fact  is,  that  we  already  hear  it  whispered  in  the  private  circles  of 
those  who  oppose  the  new  constitution,  tliat  the  Thirteen  States 
are  of  too  great  extent  for  any  general  system,  and  that  we  must 
of  necessity  resort  to  separate  confederacies  of  distinct  portions 
of  the  whole.*  This  doctrine  will,  in  all  probability,  be  gradually 
propao-ated,  till  it  has  votaries  enough  to  countenance  its  open 
avowal.  For  nothing  can  be  more  evident,  to  those  who  are  able 
to  take  an  enlarged  view  of  the  subject,  than  the  alternative  of  an 
adoption  of  the  constitution  or  a  dismemberment  of  the  Union. 
It  may,  therefore,  be  essential  to  examine  particularly  the  advan- 
tages of  that  Union,  the  certain  evils,  and  the  probable  dangers, 
to  which  every  state  will  be  exposed  from  its  dissolution.  This 
shall  accordingly  be  done.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  II. 
BY  JOHN  JAY. 

Concerning  Dangers  from  Foreign  Force  and  Influence. 

When  the  people  of  America  reflect,  that  the  question  now  sub- 
mitted to  their  determination,  is  one  of  the  most  important  that 
has  engaged  or  can  well  engage,  their  attention,  the  propriety  of 
their  taking  a  very  comprehensive,  as  well  as  a  very  serious,  view 
of  it,  must  be  evident. 

♦Tlie  same  idea,  tracing  the  arguments  to  their  consequences,  is  held  out  in  several  of 
Uie  late  publications  against  the  New  Couslilulion. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  m 

Nothing  is  more  certain  than  the  indispensable  necessity  of  gov- 
ernment ;  and  it  is  equally  undeniable,  that  whenever  and  however 
it  is  instituted,  the  people  must  cede  to  it  some  of  their  natural 
rights,  in  order  to  vest  it  with  requisite  powers.  It  is  well  worthy 
of  consideration,  therefore,  whether  it  would  conduce  more  to  the 
interest  of  the  people  of  America,  that  they  shuuld,  to  all  general 
purposes,  be  one  nation,  under  one  federal  government,  than  that 
they  should  divide  themselves  into  separate  confederacies,  and 
give  to  the  head  of  each,  the  same  kind  of  powers  which  they  are 
advised  to  place  in  one  national  government. 

It  has  until  lately  been  a  received  and  uncontradicted  opinion, 
that  the  prosperity  of  the  people  of  America  depended  on  their 
continuing  firmly  united,  and  the  wishes,  prayers,  and  efforts  of 
our  best  and  wisest  citizens  have  been  constantly  directed  to  that 
object.  But  politicians  now  appear,  who  insist  that  this  opinion  is 
erroneous,  and  that  instead  of  looking  for  safety  and  happiness  in 
union,  we  ought  to  seek  it  in  a  division  of  the  states  into  distinct 
confederacies  or  sovereignties.  However  extraordinary  this  new 
doctrine  may  appear,  it  nevertheless  has  its  advocates  ;  and  cer- 
tain characters  who  were  formerly  much  opposed  to  it,  are  at 
present  of  the  number.  Whatever  may  be  the  arguments  or  in- 
ducements which  have  wrought  this  change  in  the  sentiments  and 
declarations  of  these  gentlemen,  it  certainly  would  not  be  wise  in 
the  people  at  large  to  adopt  these  new  political  tenets,  without  be- 
ing fully  convinced  that  they  are  founded  in  truth  and  sound 
policy. 

It  has  often  given  me  pleasure  to  observe,  that  independent 
America  was  not  composed  of  detached  and  distant  territories,  but 
that  one  connected,  fertile,  wide-spreading  country,  was  the  por- 
tion of  our  western  sons  of  liberty.  Providence  has  in  a  particu- 
lar manner  blessed  it  with  a  variety  of  soils  and  productions,  and 
watered  it  with  innumerable  streams,  for  the  delight  and  accom- 
modation of  its  inhabitants.  A  succession  of  navigable  waters 
forms  a  kind  of  chain  round  its  borders,  as  if  to  bind  it  together; 
while  the  most  noble  rivers  in  the  world,  running  at  convenient  dis- 
tances, present  them  with  highways  for  the  easy  communication 
of  friendly  aids,  and  the  mutual  transportation  and  exchange  of 
their  various  commodities. 

With  equal  pleasure  I  have  as  often  taken  notice,  that  Provi- 
dence has  been  pleased  to  give  this  one  connected  country  to  one 
united  people  ;  a  people  descended  from  the  same  ancestors,  speak- 
ing the  same  language,  professing  the  same  religion,  attached  to 
the  same  principles  of  government,  very  similar  in  their  manners 
and  customs,  and  who,  by  their  joint  counsels,  arms,  and  efforts, 


12  THE  FEDER/ILIST. 

fighting  side  by  side  throughout  a  long  and  bloody  war,  have  nobly 
established  their  general  lil)erty  and  independence. 

This  country  and  this  people  seem  to  have  been  made  for  each 
other,  and  it  appears  as  if  it  was  the  design  of  Providence,  that 
an  inheritance  so  proper  and  convenient  for  a  band  of  brethren, 
united  to  each  other  by  tlie  strongest  ties,  should  never  be  split 
into  a  number  of  unsocial,  jealous,  and  alien  sovereignties. 

Similar  sentiments  have  hitherto  prevailed  among  all  orders  and 
denominations  of  men  among  us.  To  all  general  purposes  we 
have  uniformly  been  one  people  ;  each  individual  citizen  every- 
where enjoying  the  same  national  riglits,  privileges,  and  protec- 
tion. As  a  nation  we  have  made  peace  and  war  :  as  a  nation  we 
have  vanquished  our  common  enemies :  as  a  nation  we  have  form- 
ed alliances  and  made  treaties,  and  entered  into  various  compacts 
and  conventions  with  foreign  states. 

A  strong  sense  of  the  value  and  blessings  of  Union  induced  the 
people,  at  a  very  early  period,  to  institute  a  federal  government  to 
preserve  and  perpetuate  it.  They  formed  it  almost  as  soon  as 
they  had  a  political  existence  ;  nay,  at  a  time,  when  their  habita- 
tions were  in  flames,  when  many  of  them  were  bleeding  in  the 
field,  and  when  the  progress  of  hostility  and  desolation  left  little 
room  for  those  calm  and  mature  inquiries  and  reflections,  which 
must  ever  precede  the  formation  of  a  wise  and  well-balanced  gov- 
ernment for  a  free  people.  It  is  not  to  be  wondered  at,  that  a 
government,  instituted  in  times  so  inauspicious,  should  on  experi- 
ment be  found  greatly  deficient,  and  inadequate  to  the  purpose  it 
was  intended  to  answer. 

This  intelligent  people  perceived  and  regretted  these  defects. 
Still  continuing  no  less  attached  to  union,  than  enamoured  of  lib- 
erty, they  observed  the  danger  which  immediately  threatened  the 
former,  and  more  remotely  the  latter  ;  and  being  persuaded  that 
ample  security  for  both  could  only  be  found  in  a  national  govern- 
ment more  wisely  framed,  they,  as  with  one  voice,  convened  the 
late  convention  at  Philadelphia,  to  take  that  important  subject 
under  consideration. 

This  convention,  composed  of  men  who  possessed  the  confi- 
dence of  the  people,  and  many  of  whom  had  become  highly  dis- 
tinguished by  their  patriotism,  virtue  and  wisdom,  in  times  which 
tried  the  souls  of  men,  undertook  the  arduous  task.  In  the  mild 
season  of  peace,  with  minds  unoccupied  by  other  subjects,  they 
passed  many  months  in  cool,  uninterrupted,  and  daily  consulta- 
tions;  and  finally,  without  having  been  awed  by  power,  or  influ- 
enced by  any  passion,  except  love  for  their  country,  they  present- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  '  If 

ed  and  recommended  to  the  people  the  plan  produced  by  their 
joint  and  very  unanimous  councils. 

Admit,  for  so  is  the  fact,  that  this  plan  is  only  recommended,  not 
imposed,  yet  let  it  be  remembered,  that  it  is  neither  recommended 
to  hlind  approbation,  nor  to  blind  reprobation  ;  but  to  that  sedate 
and  candid  consideration,  which  the  magnitude  and  importance 
of  the  subject  demand,  and  which  it  certainly  ought  to  receive. 
But,  as  has  been  already  remarked,  it  is  more  to  be  wished  than 
expected,  that  it  may  be  so  considered  and  examined.  Experi- 
ence on  a  former  occasion  teaches  us  not  to  be  too  sanguine  in 
such  hopes.  It  is  not  yet  forgotten,  that  well-grounded  apprehen- 
sions of  imminent  danger  induced  the  people  of  America  to  form 
the  memorable  congress  of  1774.  That  body  recommended  certain 
measures  to  their  constituents,  and  the  event  proved  their  wisdom: 
yet  it  is  fresh  in  our  memories,  how  soon  the  press  began  to  teem 
with  pamphlets  and  weekly  papers  against  those  very  measures. 
Not  only  many  of  the  officers  of  government,  who  obeyed  the 
dictates  of  personal  interest,  but  others,  from  a  mistaken  estimate 
of  consequences,  from  the  undue  influence  of  ancient  attachments, 
or  whose  ambition  aimed  at  objects  which  did  not  correspond  with 
the  public  good,  were  indefotigable  in  their  endeavours  to  persuade 
the  people  to  reject  the  advice  of  that  patriotic  congress.  Many 
indeed  were  deceived  and  deluded,  but  the  great  majority  reason- 
ed and  decided  judiciously ;  and  happy  they  are  in  reflecting  that 
they  did  so. 

They  considered  that  the  congress  was  composed  of  many  wise 
and  experienced  men.  That  being  convened  from  difterent  parts 
of  the  country,  they  brought  with  them  and  communicated  to  each 
other  a  variety  of  useful  information.  That  in  the  course  of  the 
time  they  passed  together  in  inquiring  into  ajid  discussing  the  true 
interests  of  their  country,  they  must  have  acquired  very  accurate 
knowledge  on  that  head.  That  they  were  individually  interested 
in  the  public  liberty  and  prosperity,  and  therefore  that  it  was  not 
less  their  inclination,  than  their  duty,  to  recommend  such  meas- 
ures only,  as  after  the  most  mature  deliberation  they  really 
thought  prudent  and  advisable. 

These  and  similar  considerations  then  induced  the  people  to 
rely  greatly  on  the  judgment  and  integrity  of  the  congress  ;  and 
they  took  their  advice,  notwithstanding  the  various  arts  and  en- 
deavours used  to  deter  and  dissuade  them  from  it.  But  if  the 
people  at  large  had  reason  to  confide  in  the  men  of  that  congress, 
few  of  whom  had  then  been  fully  tried  or  generally  known,  still 
greater  reason  have  they  now  to  respect  the  judgment  and  advice 


14  THE  FEDERALIST. 

of  the  convention  ;  for  it  is  well  known  that  some  of  the  most  dis- 
tinguished members  of  that  congress,  who  have  been  since  tried 
and  justly  approved  for  patriotism  and  abilities,  and  who  have 
grown  old  in  acquiring  political  information,  were  also  members 
of  this  convention,  and  carried  into  it  their  accumulated  knowl- 
edge and  experience. 

It  is  worthy  of  remark,  that  not  only  the  first,  but  every  suc- 
ceeding congress,  as  well  as  the  late  convention,  have  invariably 
joined  with  the  people  in  thinking  that  the  prosperity  of  America 
depended  on  its  Union.  To  preserve  and  perpetuate  it,  was  the 
great  object  of  the  people  in  forming  that  convention,  and  it  is 
also  the  great  object  of  the  plan  which  the  convention  has  advised 
them  to  adopt.  With  what  propriety,  therefore,  or  for  what  good 
purposes,  are  attempts  at  this  particular  period  made,  by  some 
men,  to  depreciate  the  importance  of  the  union  ?  or  why  is  it  sug- 
gested that  three  or  four  confederacies  would  be  better  than  one  ? 
I  am  persuaded  in  my  own  mind,  that  the  people  have  always 
thought  right  on  this  subject,  and  that  their  universal  and  uniform 
attachment  to  the  cause  of  the  union,  rests  on  great  and  weighty 
reasons.  They  who  promote  the  idea  of  substituting  a  number  of 
distinct  confederacies  in  the  room  of  the  plan  of  the  conven- 
tion, seem  clearly  to  foresee  that  the  rejection  of  it  would  put 
the  continuance  of  the  union  in  the  utmost  jeopardy :  that  cer- 
tainly would  be  the  case ;  and  I  sincerely  wish  that  it  may  be  as 
clearly  foreseen  by  every  good  citizen,  that  whenever  the  dis- 
solution of  the  union  arrives,  America  will  have  reason  to  exclaim 
in  the  words  of  the  Poet,  "  Farewell  ;  a  long  farewell,  to  all 

MY  GREATNESS."  PUBLIUS. 


NO.    III. 

By  JOHN  JAY. 

The  same  Subject  Continued. 

It  is  not  a  new  observation  that  the  people  of  any  country  (if,  like 
the  Americans,  intelligent  and  well-informed)  seldom  adopt,  and 
steadily  persevere  for  many  years,  in  any  erroneous  opinion  re- 
specting their  interests.  That  consideration  naturally  tends  to 
create  great  respect  for  the  high  opinion  which  the  people  of 
America  have  so  long  and  uniformly  entertained  of  the  impor- 
tance of  their  continuing  firmly  united  under  one  federal  govern- 
ment, vested  with  sufficient  powers  for  all  general  and  national 
purposes. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  10^ 

The  more  attentively  I  consider  and  investigate  the  reasons 
which  appear  to  have  given  birth  to  this  opinion,  the  more  I  be- 
come convinced  that  they  are  cogent  and  conclusive. 

Amonw  the  many  objects  to  which  a  wise  and  free  people  find 
it  necessary  to  direct  their  attention,  that  of  providing  for  their 
safety  seems  to  be  the  first.  The  safety  of  the  people  doubtless 
has  relation  to  a  great  variety  of  circumstances  and  considera- 
tions, and  consequently  affords  great  latitude  to  those  who  wish 
to  define  it  precisely  and  comprehensively. 

At  present  I  mean  only  to  consider  it  as  it  respects  security  for 
the  preservation  of  peace  and  tranquillity,  as  well  against  dangers 
from  foreign  arms  and  influence,  as  against  dangers  arising  from 
domestic  causes.  As  the  former  of  these  comes  first  in  order,  it  is 
proper  it  should  be  the  first  discussed.  Let  us  therefore  proceed 
to  examine  whether  the  people  are  not  right  in  their  opinion,  that 
a  cordial  union  under  an  efficient  national  government,  aff*ords 
them  the  best  security  that  can  be  devised  against  hostilities  from 
abroad. 

The  number  of  wars  which  have  happened  or  may  happen  in 
the  world,  will  always  be  found  to  be  in  proportion  to  the  number 
and  weight  of  causes,  whether  real  or  pretended,  which  provoke  or 
invite  them.  If  this  remark  be  just  it  becomes  usefiil  to  inquire, 
whether  so  many^ws^  causes  of  war  are  likely  to  be  given  by  united 
America,  as  by  disunited  America ;  for  if  it  should  turn  out  that 
united  America  will  probably  give  the  fewest,  then  it  will  follow, 
that,  in  this  respect,  the  union  tends  most  to  preserve  the  people 
in  a  state  of  peace  with  other  nations. 

The  jMSf  causes  of  war  for  the  most  part  arise  either  from  viola- 
tions of  treaties,  or  from  direct  violence.  America  has  already 
formed  treaties  with  no  less  than  six  foreign  nations,  and  all  of 
them,  except  Prussia,  are  maritime,  and  therefore  able  to  annoy 
and  injure  us :  She  has  also  extensive  commerce  with  Portugal, 
Spain,  and  Britain,  and,  with  respect  to  the  two  latter,  has  the 
additional  circumstance  of  neighbourhood  to  attend  to. 

It  is  of  high  importance  to  the  peace  of  America,  that  she  ob- 
serve the  law  of  nations  towards  all  these  powers  ;  and  to  me  it 
appears  evident  that  this  will  be  more  perfectly  and  punctually 
done  by  one  national  government,  than  it  could  be  either  by  thir- 
teen separate  states,  or  by  three  or  four  distinct  confederacies. 
For  this  opinion  various  reasons  may  be  assigned. 

"When  once  an  efficient  national  government  is  established,  the 
best  men  in  the  country  will  not  only  consent  to  serve,  but  will  also 
generally  be  appointed  to  manage  it ;  for  although  town,  or  coun- 


16  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ty,  or  other  contracted  influence,  may  place  men  in  state  assem 
blies,  or  senates,  or  courts  of  justice,  or  executive  departments  ;  yet 
more  general  and  extensive  reputation  for  talents  and  other  quali- 
fications, will  be  necessary  to  recommend  men  to  offices  under  the 
national  government,  especially  as  it  will  have  the  widest  field  for 
choice,  and  never  experience  that  want  of  proper  pei'sons  which  is 
not  uncommon  in  some  of  the  states.  Hence  it  will  result,  that 
the  administration,  the  political  counsels,  and  the  judicial  decisions 
of  the  national  government,  will  be  more  wise,  systematical,  and 
judicious,  than  those  of  individual  states,  and  consequently  more 
satisfactory  with  respect  to  the  other  nations,  as  well  as  more  safe 
with  respect  to  ourselves. 

Under  the  national  government,  treaties  and  articles  of  treaties, 
as  well  as  the  laws  of  nations,  will  always  be  expounded  in  one 
sense,  and  executed  in  the  same  manner :  whereas  adjudications 
on  the  same  points  and  questions,  in  thirteen  states,  or  in  three  or 
four  confederacies,  w  ill  not  always  accord  or  be  consistent ;  and 
that  as  well  from  the  variety  of  independent  courts  and  judges  ap- 
pointed by  different  and  independent  governments,  as  from  the 
different  local  laws  and  interests  which  may  affect  and  influence 
them.  The  wisdom  of  the  convention,  in  committing  such  ques- 
tions to  the  jurisdiction  and  judgment  of  courts  appointed  by,  and 
responsible  only  to  one  national  government,  cannot  be  too  much 
commended. 

The  prospect  of  present  loss  or  advantage,  may  often  tempt  the 
governing  party  in  one  or  two  states  to  swerve  from  good  faith 
and  justice  ;  but  those  temptations  not  reaching  the  other  states, 
and  consequently  having  little  or  no  influence  on  the  national  gov- 
ernment, the  temptations  w^ill  be  fruitless,  and  good  faith  and  jus- 
tice be  preserved.  The  case  of  the  treaty  of  peace  with  Britain, 
adds  great  weight  to  this  reasoning. 

If  even  the  governing  party  in  a  state  should  be  disposed  to 
resist  such  temptations,  yet  as  such  temptations  may,  and  com- 
monly do,  result  from  circumstances  peculiar  to  the  state,  and  may 
affect  a  great  number  of  the  inhabitants,  the  governing  party  may 
not  always  be  able,  if  willing,  to  prevent  the  injustice  meditated, 
or  to  punish  the  aggressors.  But  the  national  government,  not 
being  aflfected  by  those  local  circumstances,  will  neither  be  induc- 
ed to  commit  the  wrong  themselves,  nor  want  power  or  inclina- 
tion to  prevent,  or  punish  its  commission  by  others. 

So  far  therefore  as  either  designed  or  accidental  violations  of 
treaties  and  of  the  laws  of  nations  afford  just  causes  of  war, 
they  are  less  to  be  apprehended  under  one  general  government, 


THE  FEDERALIST.  it 

than  under  several  lesser  ones,  and  in  that  respect,  the  former 
most  favours  the  safety  of  the  people. 

As  to  those  just  causes  of  war  which  proceed  from  direct  and 
unlawful  violence,  it  appears  equally  clear  to  me,  that  one  good 
national  government  aftbrds  vastly  more  security  against  dan- 
gers of  that  sort,  than  can  be  derived   from   any  otlier  quarter. 

Sncli  violences  are  more  frequently  occasioned  by  the  passions 
and  interests  of  a  part  than  of  the  Avhole  ;  of  one  or  two  states 
than  of  the  union.  Not  a  single  Indian  war  has  yet  been  pro- 
duced by  aggressions  of  the  present  federal  government,  feeble  as 
it  is  :  but  there  are  several  instances  of  Indian  hostilities  having 
been  provoked  by  the  improper  conduct  of  individual  states,  who, 
either  unable  or  unwilling  to  restrain  or  punish  oftences,  have 
given  occasion  to  the  slaughter  of  many  innocent  inhabitants. 

The  neighbourhood  of  Spanish  and  British  territories,  border- 
ing on  some  states,  and  not  on  others,  naturally  confines  the 
causes  of  quarrel  more  immediately  to  the  borderers.  The  border- 
ing states,  if  any,  will  be  those  who,  under  the  impulse  of  sudden 
irritations,  and  a  quick  sense  of  apparent  interest  or  injury,  will 
be  most  likely,  by  direct  violence,  to  excite  war  with  those  na- 
tions ;  and  nothing  can  so  effectually  obviate  that  danger,  as  a  na- 
tional government,  whose  wisdom  and  prudence  will  not  be  dimin- 
ished by  the  passions  which  actuate  the  parties  immediately  in- 
terested. 

But  not  only  fewer  just  causes  of  war  will  be  given  by  the  na- 
tional government,  but  it  will  also  be  more  in  their  power  to  ac- 
commodate and  settle  them  amicably.  They  will  be  more  tem- 
perate and  cool,  and  in  that  respect,  as  well  as  in  others,  will  be 
more  in  capacity  to  act  with  circumspection  than  the  offending 
state.  The  pride  of  states,  as  well  as  of  men,  naturally  disposes 
them  to  justify  all  their  actions,  and  opposes  their  acknowledging, 
correcting,  or  repairing  their  errours  and  offences.  The  national 
government  in  such  cases  will  not  be  affected  by  this  pride,  but 
will  proceed  with  moderation  and  candour  to  consider  and  decide 
'  on  the  means  most  proper  to  extricate  them  from  the  difficulties 
which  threaten  them. 

Besides  it  is  well  known  that  acknowledgments,  explanations, 
and  compensations  are  often  accepted  as  satisfactory  from  a  strong 
united  nation,  which  would  be  rejected  as  unsatisfactory  if  offered 
by  a  state  or  confederation  of  little  consideration  or  power. 

In  the  year  16S5  the  state  of  Genoa  having  offended  Louis 
XlVth,  endeavoured  to  appease  him.  He  demanded  that  they 
should  send  their  doge  or  chief  magistrate,  accompanied  by  four 
2 


m  THE  FEDERALIST. 

of  their  senators,  to  France,  to  ask  his  pardon  and  receive  his 
terms.  They  were  obliged  to  submit  to  it  for  the  sake  of  peace. 
Would  he  on  any  occasion  either  have  demanded  or  have  received 
the  like  humiliation  from  Spain,  or  Britain,  or  any  other  powcT^wJ 
nation  ?  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  IV. 
By  JOHN  JAY. 

The  same  Subject  Continued. 

My  last  paper  assigned  several  reasons,  why  the  safety  of  the 
people  would  be  best  secured  by  union  against  the  danger  it  may 
be  exposed  to  hy  just  causes  of  war  given  to  other  nations ;  and 
those  reasons  show,  that  such  causes  would  not  only  be  more  rare- 
ly given,  but  would  also  be  more  easily  accommodated  by  a  na- 
tional government,  than  either  by  the  state  governments,  or  the 
proposed  confederacies. 

But  the  safety  of  the  people  of  America  against  dangers  from 
foreign  force,  depends  not  only  on  their  forbearing  to  give  just 
causes  of  war  to  other  nations,  but  also  on  their  placing  and  con- 
tinuing themselves  in  such  a  situation  as  not  to  invite  hostility  or 
insult ;  for  it  need  not  be  observed,  that  there  are  pretended  as  well 
as  just  causes  of  war. 

It  is  too  true,  however  disgraceful  it  may  be  to  human  nature, 
that  nations  in  general  will  make  war  whenever  they  have  a  pros- 
pect of  getting  any  thing  by  it ;  nay,  that  absolute  monarchs,  will 
often  make  war  when  their  nations  are  to  get  nothing  by  it,  but 
for  purposes  and  objects  merely  personal,  such  as  a  thirst  for  mili- 
tary glory,  revenge  for  personal  aftVonts,  ambition,  or  private  com- 
pacts to  aggrandize  or  support  their  particular  families,  or  parti- 
sans. These,  and  a  variety  of  motives,  m  hich  affect  only  the  mind 
of  the  sovereign,  often  lead  him  to  engage  in  wais  not  sanctioned 
by  justice,  or  the  voice  and  interests  of  his  people.  But  indepen- 
dent of  these  inducements,  to  war,  which  are  most  prevalent  in  ab- 
solute monarchies,  but  which,  well  deserve  our  attention,  there  are 
others  which  affect  nations  as  often  as  kings  ;  and  some  of  them 
will  on  examination  be  found  to  grow  out  of  our  relative  situation 
and  circumstances. 

With  France  and  with  Britain,  we  are  rivals  in  the  fisheries, 
•and  can  supply  their  markets  cheaper  than  they  can  themselves, 
notwithstanding  any  efforts  to  prevent  it  by  bounties  on  their  own, 
or  duties  on  foreign  fish. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  19 

Witb  them  and  with  most  other  European  nations,  we  are  rivals 
in  navigation  and  the  carrying  trade  ;  and  we  shall  deceive  our- 
selves, if  we  suppose  that  any  of  ihem  will  rejoice  to  see  these 
flourish  in  our  hands :  for  as  our  carrying  trade  cannot  increase, 
without  in  some  degree  diminishing  theirs,  it  is  more  their  inter- 
est, and  will  be  more  their  policy,  to  restrain,  than  to  promote  it. 

In  the  trade  to  China  and  India,  we  interfere  with  more  than 
one  nation,  inasmuch  as  it  enables  us  to  partake  in  advantages 
which  they  had  in  a  manner  monopolized,  and  as  we  thereby  sup- 
ply ourselves  with  commodities  which  we  used  to  purchase  from 
them. 

The  extension  of  our  own  commerce,  in  our  own  vessels,  cannot 
give  pleasure  to  any  nations  who  possess  territories  on  or  near  this 
continent,  because  the  cheapness  and  excellence  of  our  produc- 
tions, added  to  the  circumstance  of  vicinity,  and  the  enterprise 
and  address  of  our  merchants  and  navigators,  will  give  us  a 
greater  share  in  the  advantages  which  those  territories  afford, 
than  consists  with  the  wishes  or  policy  of  their  respective  sove- 
reigns. 

Spain  thinks  it  convenient  to  shut  the  Mississippi  against  us  on 
the  one  side,  and  Britain  excludes  us  from  the  Saint  Lawrence  on 
the  other  ;  nor  will  either  of  them  permit  the  other  waters,  which 
are  between  them  and  us,  to  become  the  means  of  mutual  inter- 
course and  traffic. 

From  these  and  like  considerations,  which  might,  if  consistent 
with  prudence,  be  more  amplified  and  detailed,  it  is  easy  to  see 
that  jealousies  and  uneasinesses  may  gradually  slide  into  the  minds 
and  cabinets  of  other  nations  ;  and  that  we  are  not  to  expect  they 
should  regard  our  advancement  in  union,  in  power  and  conse- 
quence by  land  and  by  sea,  with  an  eye  of  indifference  and  com- 
posure. 

The  people  of  America  are  aware,  that  inducements  to  war  may 
arise  out  of  these  circumstances,  as  well  as  from  others  not  so  ob- 
vious at  present;  and  that  whenever  such  inducements  may  find 
fit  time  and  opportunity  for  operation,  pretences  to  colour  and  jus- 
tify them  will  not  be  wanting.  Wisely  therefore  do  they  consider 
union  and  a  good  national  government  as  necessary  to  put  and 
keep  them  in  such  a  situation,  as,  instead  of  inviting  war,  will  tend 
to  repress  and  discourage  it.  That  situation  consists  in  the  best 
possible  state  of  defence,  and  necessarily  depends  on  the  govern- 
ment, the  arms,  and  the  resources  of  the  country. 

As  the  safety  of  the  whole  is  the  interest  of  the  whole,  and  can- 
not be  provided  for  without  government,  either  one  or  more  or 


to  THE  FEDERALIST. 

many,  let  us  inquire  whether  one  good  government  is  not,  relative 
to  the  object  in  question,  more  competent  than  any  other  given 
number  whatever. 

One  government  can  collect  and  avail  itself  of  the  talents  and 
experience  of  the  ablest  men,  in  whatever  part  of  the  union  they 
may  be  found.  It  can  move  on  uniform  principles  of  policy.  It 
can  harmonize,  assimilate,  and  protect  the  several  parts  and  mem- 
bers, and  extend  the  benefit  of  its  foresight  and  precautions  to 
each.  In  the  formation  of  treaties  it  will  regard  the  interest  of 
the  whole,  and  the  particular  interests  of  the  parts  as  connected 
with  that  of  the  whole.  It  can  apply  the  resources  and  power  of 
the  whole  to  the  defence  of  any  particular  part,  and  that  more 
easily  and  expeditiously  than  state  governments,  or  separate  con- 
federacies can  possibly  do,  for  want  of  concert  and  unity  of  sys- 
tem. It  can  place  the  militia  under  one  plan  of  discipline,  and 
by  putting  their  officers  in  a  proper  line  of  subordination  to  tlie 
chief  mao-istrate,  will  in  a  manner  consolidate  them  into  one  corps, 
and  thereby  render  them  more  efficient  than  if  divided  into  thirteen 
or  into  three  or  four  distinct  independent  bodies. 

What  would  the  militia  of  Britain  be,  if  the  English  militia 
obeyed  the  government  of  England,  if  tlie  Scotch  militia  obeyed 
the  government  of  Scotland,  and  if  the  Welch  militia  obeyed  the 
government  of  Wales  1  Suppose  an  invasion  :  would  those  three 
governments  (if  they  agreed  at  all)  be  able  with  all  their  respec- 
tive forces,  to  operate  against  the  enemy  so  effectually  as  the  sin- 
gle government  of  Great  Britain  would  1 

We  have  heard  much  of  the  fleets  of  Britain  ;  and  if  we  are 
wise,  the  time  may  come,  when  the  fleets  of  America  may  engage 
attention.  But  if  one  national  government  had  not  so  regulated 
the  navigation  of  Britain  as  to  make  it  a  nursery  for  seamen. ...if 
one  national  government  had  not  called  forth  all  the  national 
means  and  materials  for  forming  fleets,  their  prowess  and  their 
thunder  would  never  have  been  celebrated.  Let  England  have 
its  navigation  and  fleet. ...let  Scotland  have  its  navigation  and 
fleet.. ..let  Wales  have  its  navigation  and  fleet. ...let  Ireland  have 
its  navigation  and  fleet. ...let  those  four  of  the  constituent  parts  of 
the  British  empire  be  under  four  independent  governments,  and  it 
is  easy  to  perceive,  how  soon  they  would  each  dwindle  into  com- 
parative insignificance. 

Apply  these  facts  to  our  own  case.  Leave  America  divided  into 
thirteen,  or  if  you  please  into  three  or  four  independent  govern- 
ments, what  armies  could  they  raise  and  pay,  what  fleets  could 
they  ever  hope  to  have  1     If  one  was  attacked,  would  the  others 


THE  FEDERALIST.  # 

fly  to  its  succour,  and  spend  their  blood  and  money  in  its  defence  ? 
Would  there  be  no  danger  of  their  being  flattered  into  neutrality 
by  specious  promises,  or  seduced  by  a  too  great  fondness  for  peace 
to  decline  hazarding  their  tranquillity  and  present  safety  for  the 
sake  of  neighbours,  of  whom  perhaps  they  have  been  jealous,  and 
whose  importance  they  are  content  to  see  diminished?  Although 
such  conduct  would  not  be  wise,  it  would  nevertheless  be  natural. 
The  history  of  the  states  of  Greece,  and  of  other  countries, 
abound  with  such  instances ;  audit  is  not  improbable,  that  what 
has  so  often  happened  would,  under  similar  circumstances,  happen 
again. 

But  admit  that  they  might  be  willing  to  help  the  invaded  state 
or  confederacy.  How,  and  when,  and  in  what  proportion  shall 
aids  of  men  and  money  be  afforded  1  Who  shall  command  the 
allied  armies,  and  from  which  of  the  associates  shall  he  receive 
his  orders  ?  Who  shall  settle  the  terms  of  peace,  and  in  case  of 
disputes  what  umpire  shall  decide  between  them,  and  compel  ac- 
quiescence ?  Various  difficulties  and  inconveniences  would  be 
inseparable  from  such  a  situation ;  whereas  one  government, 
watchino-  over  the  general  and  common  interests,  and  combining 
and  directing  the  powers  and  resources  of  the  whole,  would  be 
free  from  all  these  embarrassments,  and  conduce  far  more  to  the 
safety  of  the  people. 

But  whatever  may  be  our  situation,  whether  firmly  united  under 
one  national  government,  or  split  into  a  number  of  confederacies, 
certain  it  is,  that  foreign  nations  will  know  and  view  it  exactly  as 
it  is,  and  they  will  act  towards  us  accordingly.  If  they  see  that 
our  national  government  is  efficient  and  well  adniinistered....our 
trade  prudently  regulated. ...our  militia  properly  organized  and  dis- 
ciplined....our  resources  and  finances  discreetly  managed.. ..our 
credit  reestablished.. ..our  people  free,  contented,  and  united,  they 
will  be  much  more  disposed  to  cultivate  our  friendship,  than  to 
provoke  our  resentment.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  they  find  us  either 
destitute  of  an  effectual  government,  (each  state  doing  right  or 
wrong  as  to  its  rulers  may  seem  convenient,)  or  split  into  three  or 
four  independent  and  probably  discordant  republics  or  confedera- 
cies, one  inclining  to  Britain,  another  to  France,  and  a  third  to 
Spain,  and  perhaps  played  oft'  against  each  other  by  the  three, 
what  a  poor  pitiful  figure  will  America  make  in  their  eyes !  How 
liable  would  she  become  not  only  to  their  contempt,  but  to  their 
outrage  ;  and  how  soon  would  dear-bought  experience  proclaim 
that  when  a  people  or  family  so  divide,  it  never  fails  to  be  against 
themselves !  PUBLIUS. 


22  THE  FEDERALIST. 

NO.  V. 
Br  JOHN  JAY. 

The  same  Subject  Continued. 

Queen  Ann,  in  lier  letter  of  the  1st  July,  1706,  to  the  Scotch 
Parliament,  makes  some  observations  on  the  importance  of  the 
union  then  forming  between  England  and  Scotland,  which  merit 
our  attention.  I  shall  present  the  public  with  one  or  two  extracts 
from  it.  "  All  entire  and  perfect  union  will  be  the  solid  founda- 
"tion  of  lasting  peace  :  it  will  secure  your  religion,  liberty,  and 
"  property,  remove  the  animosities  amongst  yourselves,  and  the 
"jealousies  and  differences  betwixt  our  two  kingdoms.  It  must 
"  increase  your  strength,  riches,  and  trade  ;  and  by  this  union  the 
"  whole  island,  being  joined  in  affection  and  free  from  all  appre- 
"  hensions  of  different  interests,  will  be  enabled  to  resist  all  its  cnc- 
"  inics.^^  "  We  most  earnestly  recommend  to  you  calmness  and 
"  unanimity  in  this  great  and  weighty  affair  that  the  union  may  be 
"  brought  to  a  happy  conclusion  ;  being  the  only  effectual  way  to 
"  secure  our  present  and  future  happiness,  and  disappoint  the  de- 
"  signs  of  our  and  your  enemies,  who  will  doubtless,  on  this  occa- 
"  sion,  use  their  utmost  endeavours  to  prevent  or  delay  this  union.^^ 

It  was  remarked  in  the  preceding  paper,  that  weakness  and 
division  at  home,  would  invite  dangers  from  abroad,  and  that  noth- 
ing would  tend  more  to  secure  us  from  them  than  union,  strength, 
and  good  government  within  ourselves.  This  subject  is  copious 
and  cannot  easily  be  exhausted. 

The  history  of  Great  Britain  is  the  one  with  which  we  are  in 
general  the  best  aquainted,  and  it  gives  us  many  useful  lessons. 
We  may  profit  by  their  experience,  without  paying  the  price 
which  it  cost  them.  Although  it  seems  obvious  to  common  sense, 
that  the  people  of  such  an  island  should  be  but  one  nation,  yet  we 
find  that  they  were  for  ages  divided  into  three,  and  that  those  three 
were  almost  constantly  embroiled  in  quarrels  and  wars  with  one 
another.  Notwithstanding  their  true  interest,  with  respect  to  the 
continental  nations,  was  really  the  same,  yet  by  the  arts  and  policy 
and  practices  of  those  nations,  their  mutual  jealousies  were  pei'- 
petually  kept  enflamed,  and  for  a  long  series  of  years  they  were 
far  more  inconvenient  and  troublesome,  than  they  were  useful  and 
esbisting  to  each  other. 

Should  the  people  of  America  divide  themselves  into  three  or 
four  nations,  would  not  the  same  thing  happen  ?  Would  not 
fimilar  jealousies  arise,  and  be  in  like  manner  cherished  1  Instead 


THE  FEDERALIST.  m 

of  their  being  "joined  in  affection  and  free  from  all  apprehen- 
"  sion  of  different  interests,"  envy  and  jealousy  would  soon  extin- 
guish confidence  and  affection,  and  the  partial  interests  of  each 
confederacy  instead  of  the  general  interests  of  all  America,  would 
be  the  only  objects  of  their  policy  and  pursuits.  Hence,  like  most 
other  bordering  nations,  they  would  always  be  either  involved  in 
disputes  and  war,  or  live  in  the  constant  apprehension  of  them. 

The  most  sanijuine  advocates  ii»r  three  or  four  confederacies, 
cannot  reasonably  suppose,  that  they  would  long  remain  exactly 
on  an  equal  footing  in  point  of  strength,  even  if  it  was  possible  to 
form  them  so  at  first :  but  admitting  that  to  be  practicable,  yet 
what  human  contrivance  can  secure  the  continuance  of  such  equal- 
ity 1  Independent  of  those  local  circumstances  w  hich  tend  to  be- 
get and  increase  power  in  one  part  and  to  impede  its  progress  in 
another,  we  must  advert  to  the  effects  of  that  superiour  policy  and 
good  management  which  would  probably  distinguish  the  govern- 
ment of  one  above  the  rest,  and  by  which  their  relative  equality  in 
strength  and  consideration  would  be  destroyed.  For  it  cannot  be 
presumed  that  the  same  degree  of  sound  policy,  prudence,  and 
foresight  would  uniformly  be  observed  by  each  of  these  confed- 
eracies, for  a  long  succession  of  years. 

Whenever,  and  from  whatever  causes,  it  might  happen,  and 
happen  it  would,  that  any  one  of  these  nations  or  confederacies, 
ehould  rise  on  the  scale  of  political  importance  much  above  the 
degree  of  her  neighbours,  that  moment  would  those  neighbours 
behold  her  with  envy  and  with  fear.  Both  those  passions  would 
lead  them  to  countenance,  if  not  to  promote,  whatever  might  pro- 
mise to  diminish  her  importance  ;  and  would  also  restrain  them 
from  measures  calculated  to  advance,  or  even  to  secure  her  pros- 
perity. Much  time  would  not  be  necessary  to  enable  her  to  discern 
these  unfriendly  dispositions.  She  would  soon  begin,  not  only  to 
lose  confidence  in  her  neighbours,  but  also  to  feel  a  disposition 
equally  unfavourable  to  them.  Distrust  naturally  creates  distrust, 
and  by  nothing  is  good-will  and  kind  conduct  more  speedily  chang- 
ed, than  by  invidious  jealousies  and  uncandid  imputations, 
whether  expressed  or  implied. 

The  north  is  generally  the  region  of  strength,  and  many  local 
circumstances  render  it  probable,  that  the  most  northern  of  the 
proposed  confederacies  would,  at  a  period  not  very  far  distant,  be 
unquestionably  more  formidable  than  any  of  the  others.  No 
.sooner  would  this  become  evident,  than  the  Northern  Hive  would 
excite  the  same  ideas  and  sensations  in  the  more  southern  parts 
of  America,  which  it  formerly   did  in  the  southern  parts  of  Eu- 


24  THE  FEDERALIST. 

rope  :  nor  does  it  appear  to  be  a  rash  conjecture,  that  its  young 
swarms  miglit  often  be  tempted  to  gather  honey  in  the  more 
blooming  fields  and  milder  air  of  their  hixurious  and  more  deli- 
cate neijriibours. 

Tiiey,  who  well  consider  the  history  of  similar  divisions  and 
confederacies,  will  find  abundant  reasons  to  apprehend,  that  those 
in  contemplation  would  in  no  other  sense  be  neighbours,  tlian  as 
they  would  be  borderers  ;  that  they  would  neither  love,  nor  trust  one 
another,  but  on  the  contrary  would  be  a  prey  to  discord,  jealousy, 
and  mutual  injuries ;  in  short,  that  they  would  place  us  exactly 
in  the  situation  in  which  some  nations  doubtless  wish  to  see  us,  in 
which  we  shall  he  formidable  only  to  each  other. 

From  these  considerations  it  appears,  that  those  persons  are 
greatly  mistaken,  who  suppose  that  alliances  offensive  and  defen- 
sive might  be  formed  between  these  confederacies,  which  would 
produce  that  combination  and  union  of  wills,  of  arms,  and  of 
resources,  which  would  be  necessary  to  put  and  keep  them  in  a 
formidable  state  of  defence  against  foreign  enemies. 

"NVhen  did  the  independent  states,  into  which  Britain  and  Spain 
were  formerly  divided,  combine  in  such  alliances,  or  unite  their 
forces  against  a  foreign  enemy  ?  The  proposed  confederacies  will 
be  distinct  nations.  Each  of  them  would  have  to  regulate  its  com- 
merce with  foreigners  by  distinct  treaties  ;  and  as  their  produc- 
tions and  commodities  are  different,  and  proper  for  different 
markets,  so  would  those  treaties  be  essentially  different.  Different 
commercial  concerns  must  create  different  interests,  and  of  course 
different  degrees  of  political  attachment  to,  and  connexion  with, 
different  foreign  nations.  Hence,  it  might,  and  probably  would 
happen,  that  the  foreign  nation,  with  whom  the  southern  confed- 
eracy miglit  be  at  war,  would  be  the  one,  with  whom  the  northern 
confederacy  would  be  the  most  desirous  of  preserving  peace  and 
friendship.  An  alliance  so  contrary  to  their  immediate  interest 
would  not  therefore  be  easy  to  form,  nor  if  formed,  would  it  be 
obseft  ed  and  fulfilled  with  perfect  good  faith. 

Nay,  it  is  far  more  probable,  that  in  America,  as  in  Europe, 
neighbouring  nations,  acting  under  the  impulse  of  opposite  in- 
terests, and  unfriendly  passions,  would  frequently  be  found  taking 
different  sides.  Considering  our  distance  from  Europe,  it  would 
be  more  natural  for  these  confederacies  to  apprehend  danger  from 
one  another,  than  from  distant  nations,  and  therefore  that  each  of 
them  should  be  more  desirous  to  guard  against  the  others,  by  the 
aid  of  foreign  alliances,  than  to  guard  against  foreign  dangers  by 
alliances  between  themselves.     And  here,  let  us  not  forget,  how 


THE  FEDERALIST.  2&amp; 

much  easier  it  is  to  receive  foreign  fleets  into  our  ports,  and  for- 
eign armies  into  our  country,  than  it  is  to  persuade  or  compel 
them  to  depart.  Ho\^-  many  conquests  did  the  Romans  and  others 
make  in  the  character  of  allies,  and  what  iiuiovatioiis  did  they 
under  the  san)e  character  introduce  into  the  goverinnents  of  those 
whom  they  pretended  to  protect ! 

Let  candid  men  judge,  then,  whether  the  division  of  America 
into  any  given  numher  of  independent  sovereignties,  would  tend  to 
secure  us  against  the  hostilities  and  improper  interference  of  for- 
eign nations.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  VL 
Br  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

Concerning  Dangers  from  War  between  the  States. 

The  three  last  numbers  of  this  work  have  been  dedicated  to  an 
enumeration  of  the  dangers  to  wliich  we  should  be  exposed,  in  a 
state  of  disunion,  from  the  arms  and  arts  of  foreign  nations.  I 
shall  now  proceed  to  delineate  dangers  of  a  difierent,  and,  per- 
haps, still  more  alarming  kind  ;  those  which  will  in  all  probability 
flow  from  dissensions  between  the  states  themselves,  and  from  do- 
mestic factions  and  convulsions.  These  have  been  already  in 
some  instances  slightly  anticipated ;  but  they  deserve  a  more  par- 
ticular and  more  full  investigation. 

If  these  states  should  either  be  wholly  disunited,  or  only  united 
in  partial  confederacies,  a  man  must  be  far  gone  in  Utopian  spec- 
ulations, Avho  can  seriously  doubt  that  the  subdivisions  into  which 
they  might  be  thrown  would  have  frequent  and  violent  contests 
with  each  other.  To  presume  a  want  of  motives  for  such  con- 
tests, as  an  argument  against  their  existence,  would  be  to  forget 
that  men  are  ambitious,  vindictive,  and  rapacious.  To  look  for  a 
continuation  of  harmony  between  a  number  of  independent,  un- 
connected sovereignties,  situated  in  the  same  neighbourhood,  would 
be  to  disregard  the  uniform  course  of  human  events,  and  to  set  at 
defiance  the  accumulated  experience  of  ages. 

The  causes  of  hostility  among  nations  are  innumerable.  There 
are  some  which  have  a  general  and  almost  constant  operation  upon 
the  collective  bodies  of  society.  Of  this  description  are  the  love 
of  power,  or  the  desire  of  preeminence  and  dominion. ...the  jeal- 
ousy of  power,  or  the  desire  of  equality  and  safety.  There  are 
others  which  have  a  more  circumscribed,  though  an  equally  oper- 


26  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ative  influence,  within  their  spheres  :  such  are  the  rivalships  and 
competitions  of  commerce  between  commercial  nations.  And 
there  are  others,  not  less  numerous  than  either  of  the  former, 
which  take  their  origin  entirely  in  private  passions  ;  in  the  attach- 
ments, enmities,  interests,  hopes,  and  fears  of  leading  individuals 
in  the  communities  of  which  they  are  members.  Men  of  this 
class,  whether  the  favourites  of  a  king  or  of  a  people,  have  in  too 
many  instances  abused  the  confidence  they  possessed  ;  and  assum- 
ing the  pretext  of  some  public  motive,  have  not  scrupled  to  sacri- 
fice the  national  tranquillity  to  personal  advantage,  or  personal 
gratification. 

The  celebrated  Pericles,  in  compliance  with  the  resentment  of 
a  prostitute,*  at  the  expense  of  much  of  the  blood  and  treasure  of 
his  countrymen,  attacked,  vanquished,  and  destroyed  the  city  of 
the  Samnians.  The  same  man,  stimulated  by  private  pique  against 
the  Magarensians,  another  nation  of  Greece,  or  to  avoid  a  prose- 
cution with  which  he  was  threatened  as  an  accomplice  in  a  sup- 
posed theft  of  the  statuary  Phidias,  or  to  get  rid  of  the  accusa- 
tions prepared  to  be  brought  against  him  for  dissipating  the  funds 
of  the  state  in  tiie  purchase  of  popularity,  or  from  a  combination 
of  all  these  causes,  was  the  primitive  author  of  that  famous  and 
fatal  war,  distinguished  in  the  Grecian  annals  by  the  name  of  the 
Peloponnesian  war ;  which,  after  various  vicissitudes,  intermis- 
sions, and  renewals,  terminated  in  the  ruin  of  the  Athenian  com- 
monwealth. 

The  ambitious  cardinal,  who  was  prime  minister  to  Henry 
VHIth,  permitting  his  vanity  to  aspire  to  the  triple  crown,  enter- 
tained hopes  of  succeeding  in  the  acquisition  of  that  splendid 
prize  by  the  influence  of  the  emperor  Charles  Vth.  To  secure 
the  favour  and  interest  of  tliis  enterprising  and  powerful  monarch, 
he  precipitated  England  into  a  war  with  France,  contrary  to  the 
plainest  dictates  of  policy,  and  at  the  hazard  of  the  safety  and 
independence,  as  well  of  the  kingdom  over  which  he  presided  by 
his  counsels,  as  of  Europe  in  general.  For  if  there  ever  was  a 
sovereign  who  bid  fair  to  realize  the  project  of  universal  monar- 
chy, it  was  the  emperor  Charles  Vth,  of  whose  intrigues  Wolsey 
was  at  once  the  instrument  and  the  dupe. 

The  influence  which  the  bigotry  of  one  female,t  the  petulances 

of  another,^  and  the  cabals  of  a  third,§  had  in  the   cotemporary 

policy,  ferments,  and  pacifications,  of  a  considerable  part  of  Eu-. 

•  AsPAsiA,  vide  Plutarch's  life  of  Pericles.  f  Madame  de  Mainlenon. 

\  Puclicss  of  Marlborough,  j  MaJnmc  de  Pompadoure. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  27 

rope,  are  topics  that  have  been  too  often  descanted  upon  not  to  be 
generally  known. 

To  multiply  examples  of  the  agency  of  personal  considerations 
in  the  production  of  great  national  events,  either  foreign  or  do- 
mestic, according  to  their  direction,  would  be  an  unnecessary 
waste  of  time.  Those  who  have  but  a  superficial  acquaintance 
with  the  sources  from  which  they  are  to  be  drawn,  will  themselves 
recollect  a  variety  of  instances  ;  and  those  who  have  a  tolerable 
knowledge  of  human  nature,  will  not  stand  in  need  of  such  lights, 
to  form  their  opinion  either  of  the  reality  or  extent  of  that  agency. 
Perhaps,  however,  a  reference,  tending  to  illustrate  the  general 
principle,  may  with  propriety  be  made  to  a  case  which  has  lately 
happened  among  ourselves.  If  Shays  had  not  been  a  desperate 
debtor,  it  is  much  to  be  doubted  whether  Massachusetts  would  have 
been  plunged  into  a  civil  war. 

But  notwithstanding  the  concurring  testimony  of  experience,  in 
this  particular,  there  are  still  to  be  found  visionary  or  designing 
men,  who  stand  ready  to  advocate  the  paradox  of  perpetual  peace 
between  the  states,  though  dismembered  and  alienated  from  each 
other.. ..The  genius  of  republics,  say  they,  is  pacific  ;  the  spirit  of 
commerce  has  a  tendency  to  soften  the  manners  of  men,  and  to 
extinguish  those  inflammable  humours  which  have  so  often  kindled 
into  wars.  Commercial  republics,  like  ours,  will  never  be  dispos- 
ed to  waste  themselves  in  ruinous  contentions  with  each  other. 
They  will  be  governed  by  mutual  interest,  and  will  cultivate  a 
spirit  of  mutual  amity  and  concord. 

We  may  ask  these  projectors  in  politics,  whether  it  is  not  the 
true  interest  of  all  nations  to  cultivate  the  same  benevolent  and 
philosophic  spirit  1  If  this  be  their  true  interest,  have  they  in  fact 
pursued  it  ?  Has  it  not,  on  the  contrary,  invariably  been  found, 
that  momentary  passions,  and  immediate  interests,  have  a  more 
active  and  imperious  control  over  human  conduct,  than  general  or 
remote  considerations  of  policy,  utility,  or  justice  ?  Have  repub- 
lics in  practice  been  less  addicted  to  war  than  monarchies  1  Are 
not  the  former  administered  by  men  as  well  as  the  latter  1  Are 
there  not  aversions,  predilections,  rivalships,  and  desires  of  unjust 
acquisition,  that  afi^ect  nations,  as  well  as  kings  1  Are  not  popu- 
lar assemblies  frequently  subject  to  the  impulses  of  rage,  resent- 
ment, jealousy,  avarice,  and  of  other  irregular  and  violent  propen- 
sities 1  Is  it  not  well  known,  that  their  determinations  are  often 
governed  by  a  few  individuals  in  whom  they  place  confidence,  and 
that  they  are  of  course  liable  to  be  tinctured  by  the  passions  and 
views  of  those  individuals  1     Has  commerce  hitherto  done  any 


28  THE  FEDERALIST. 

thino-  more  than  change  the  objects  of  war  ?  Is  not  the  love  of 
wealth  as  domineering  and  enterprising  a  passion  as  that  of  power 
or  "•lorv  ?  Have  there  not  been  as  many  wars  founded  upon  com- 
mercial motives,  since  that  has  become  the  prevailing  system  of 
nations,  as  were  before  occasioned  by  the  cupidity  of  territory  or 
dominion  ?  Has  not  the  spirit  of  commerce,  in  many  instances, 
administered  new  incentives  to  the  appetite  both  for  the  one  and 
for  the  other  ?  Let  experience,  the  least  fallible  guide  of  human 
opinions,  be  appealed  to  for  an  answer  to  these  inquiries. 

Sparta,  Athens,  Rome,  and  Carthage,  were  all  republics  ;  two 
of  them,  Athens  and  Carthage,  of  the  commercial  kind.  Yet 
were  they  as  often  engaged  in  wars,  otfensive  and  defensive,  as 
the  neighbouring  monarchies  of  the  same  times.  Sparta  was  little 
better  than  a  well-regulated  camp  ;  and  Rome  was  never  sated  of 
carnage  and  conquest. 

Carthage,  though  a  commercial  republic,  was  the  aggressor  in 
the  very  war  that  ended  in  her  destruction.  Hannibal  had  car- 
ried her  arms  into  the  heart  of  Italy,  and  even  to  the  gates  of 
Rome,  before  Scipio,  in  turn,  gave  him  an  overthrow  in  the  terri- 
tories of  Carthage,  and  made  a  conquest  of  the  commonwealth. 

Venice,  in  latter  times,  figured  more  than  once  in  wars  of  am- 
bition ;  till  becoming  an  object  of  terrour  to  the  other  Italian 
states,  pope  Julius  the  second  found  means  to  accomplish  that 
formidable  league,*  which  gave  a  deadly  blow  to  the  power  and 
pride  of  that  haughty  republic. 

The  provinces  of  Holland,  till  they  were  overwhelmed  in  debts 
and  taxes,  look  a  leading  and  conspicuous  part  in  the  wars  of 
Europe.  They  had  furious  contests  with  England  for  the  domin- 
ion of  the  sea ;  and  were  among  the  most  persevering  and  most 
implacable  of  the  opponents  of  Louis  XIV. 

In  the  government  of  Britain  the  representatives  of  the  people 
compose  one  branch  of  the  national  legislature.  Commere  has 
been  for  ages  the  predominant  pursuit  of  that  country.  Yet  few 
nations  have  been  more  frequently  engaged  in  war ;  and  the  wars, 
in  which  that  kingdom  has  been  engaged,  have  in  numerous  in- 
stances proceeded  from  the  people.  There  have  been,  if  I  may 
so  express  it,  almost  as  many  popular  as  royal  wars.  The  cries 
of  the  nation  and  the  importunities  of  their  representatives  have, 
upon  various  occasions,  dragged  their  monarchs  into  war,  or  con- 
tinued them  in  it,  contrary  to  their  inclinations,  and  sometimes 
contrary  to  the  real  interests  of  the  state.      In  that  memorable 

*  The  LEiGfE  or  Cambrat,  comprehending  the  emperor,  the  king  of  France,  ihe 
king  of  .\rragon,  and  most  of  ilie  Italian  princes  and  Slates. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  ^ 

struggle  for  superiority,  between  the  rival  houses  of  Austria  and 
Bourbon,  which  so  long  kept  Europe  in  a  flame,  it  is  well  known 
that  the  antipathies  of  the  English  against  the  French,  seconding 
the  ambition,  or  rather  the  avarice,  of  a  favourite  leader,*  pro- 
tracted the  war  beyond  the  limits  marked  out  by  sound  policy, 
and  for  a  considerable  time  in  opposition  to  the  views  of  the  court. 

The  wars  of  these  two  last  mentioned  nations  have  in  a  great 
measure  grown  out  of  commercial  considerations  :  the  desire  of 
supplanting,  and  the  fear  of  being  supplanted,  either  in  particular 
branches  of  traffic,  or  in  the  general  advantages  of  trade  and  nav- 
igation ;  and  sometimes  even  the  more  culpable  desire  of  shariiio" 
in  the  commerce  of  other  nations,  without  their  consent. 

The  last  war  but  two  between  Britain  and  Spain,  sprang  from 
the  attempts  of  the  English  merchants  to  prosecute  an  ilhcit  trade 
with  the  Spanish  main.  These  unjustifiable  practices  on  their 
part,  produced  severities  on  the  part  of  the  Spaniards,  towards 
the  subjects  of  Great  Britain,  which  were  not  more  justifiable  ; 
because  they  exceeded  the  bounds  of  a  just  retaliation,  and  were 
chargeable  with  inhumanity  and  cruelty.  Many  of  the  English 
who  were  taken  on  the  Spanish  coasts,  were  sent  to  dig  in  the 
mines  of  Potosi  ;  and.  by  the  usual  progress  of  a  spirit  of  resent- 
ment, the  innocent  were  after  a  while  confounded  with  the  guilty 
in  indiscriminate  punishment.  The  complaints  of  the  merchants 
kindled  a  violent  flame  throughout  the  nation,  which  soon  after 
broke  out  in  the  house  of  commons,  and  was  communicated  from 
that  body  to  the  ministry.  Letters  of  reprisal  were  granted,  and 
a  war  ensued  ;  which,  in  its  consequences,  overthrew  all  the  alli- 
ances that  but  twenty  years  before  had  been  formed,  with  sanguine 
expectations  of  the  most  beneficial  fruits. 

From  this  summary  of  what  has  taken  place  in  other  countries, 
whose  situations  have  borne  the  nearest  resemblance  to  our  own, 
what  reason  can  we  have  to  confide  in  those  reveries,  which  would 
seduce  us  into  the  expectation  of  peace  and  cordiality  between 
the  members  of  the  present  confederacy,  in  a  state  of  separation  ? 
Have  we  not  already  seen  enough  of  the  fallacy  and  extravagance 
of  those  idle  theories  which  have  amused  us  with  promises  of  an 
exemption  from  the  imperfections,  the  weaknesses,  and  the  evils 
incident  to  society  in  every  shape  1  Is  it  not  time  to  awake  from 
the  deceitful  dream  of  a  golden  age,  and  to  adopt  as  a  practical 
maxim  for  the  direction  of  our  political  conduct,  that  we,  as  well 
as  the  other  inhabitants  of  the  globe,  are  yet  remote  from  the 
happy  empire  of  perfect  Avisdom  and  perfect  virtue  1 

*  Tlie  duke  of  Marlborough. 


m  THE  FEDERALIST. 

Let  the  point  of  extreme  depression  to  which  our  national  dig- 
nity and  credit  have  sunk ;  let  the  inconveniences  felt  everywhere 
from  a  lax  and  ill  administration  of  government;  let  the  revolt  of 
a  part  of  the  state  of  North  Carolina ;  the  late  menacing  distur- 
bances in  Pennsylvania,  and  the  actual  insurrections  and  rebellions 
in  Massachusetts,  declare  ! 

So  far  is  the  general  sense  of  mankind  from  corresponding  with 
the  tenets  of  those,  who  endeavour  to  lull  asleep  our  apprehen- 
sions of  discord  and  hostility  between  the  states,  in  the  event  of 
disunion,  that  it  has  from  long  observation  of  the  progress  of  so- 
ciety become  a  sort  of  axiom  in  politics,  that  vicinity,  or  nearness 
of  situation,  constitutes  nations  natural  enemies.  An  intelligent 
writer  expresses  himself  on  this  subject  to  this  effect ;  "  Neigh- 
"  BOURiNG  NATIONS  (says  he)  are  naturally  enemies  of  each  other, 
"  unless  their  common  weakness  forces  them  to  league  in  a  con- 
•'  FEDERATIVE  REPUBLIC,  and  their  constitution  prevents  the  differ- 
"  ences  that  neighbourhood  occasions,  extinguishing  that  secret 
"jealousy,  which  disposes  all  states  to  aggrandize  themselves  at 
••  the  expense  of  their  neighbours."*  This  passage,  at  the  same 
time,  points  out  the  evil,  and  suggests  the  remedy. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  vn. 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

TTie  Subject  Continued,  and  Particular  Causes  Enumerated. 

It  is  sometimes  asked,  with  an  air  of  seeming  triumph,  what 
inducements  the  states  could  have,  if  disunited,  to  make  war  upon 
each  other  ?  It  would  be  a  full  answer  to  this  question  to  say,..., 
precisely  the  same  inducements  which  have,  at  diiferent  times, 
deluged  in  blood  all  the  nations  in  the  world.  But  unfortunately 
for  us,  the  question  admits  of  a  more  particular  answer.  There 
are  causes  of  difference  within  our  immediate  contemplation,  of 
the  tendency  of  which,  even  under  the  restraints  of  a  federal  con- 
stitution, we  have  had  sufficient  experience  to  enable  us  to  form  a 
judgment  of  what  might  be  expected,  if  those  restraints  were  re- 
moved. 

Territorial  disputes  have  at  all  times  been  found  one   of  the 
most   fertile   sources  of   hostility    among  nations.     Perhaps   the 
greatest  portion  of  the  wars  that  have  desolated   the  earth  have 
'*  Vide  Principes  des  Negoiiaiions  par  I'Abbe  de  Mably. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  31 

sprung  from  this  origin.  This  cause  would  exist,  among  us,  ia 
full  foi-ce.  We  have  a  vast  tract  of  unsettled  territory  within  the 
boundaries  of  the  United  States.  There  still  are  discordant  and 
undecided  claims  between  several  of  them  ;  and  the  dissolution  of 
the  union  would  lay  a  foundation  for  similar  claims  between  them 
all.  It  is  well  known,  that  they  have  heretofore  had  serious  and 
animated  discussions  concerning  the  right  to  the  lands  which  \f ere 
ungranted  at  the  time  of  the  revolution,  and  which  usually  went 
under  the  name  of  crown  lands.  The  states,  within  the  limits  of 
whose  colonial  governments  they  were  comprised,  have  claimed 
them  as  their  property  ;  the  others  have  contended  that  the  rights 
of  the  crown  in  this  article  devolved  upon  the  union ;  especial- 
ly as  to  all  that  part  of  the  western  territory  which,  either  by  ac- 
tual possession,  or  through  the  submission  of  the  Indian  propri- 
etors, was  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  king  of  Great  Britain, 
till  it  was  relinquished  by  the  treaty  of  peace.  This,  it  has  been 
said,  was  at  all  events  an  acquisition  to  the  confederacy  by  com- 
pact with  a  foreign  power.  It  has  been  the  prudent  policy  of  con- 
gress to  appease  this  controversy,  by  prevaihng  upon  the  states  to 
make  cessions  to  the  United  States  for  the  benefit  of  the  whole. 
This  has  been  so  far  accomplished,  as  under  a  continuation  of  the 
union,  to  afford  a  decided  prospect  of  an  amicable  termination  of 
the  dispute.  A  dismemberment  of  the  confederacy,  however, 
would  revive  this  dispute,  and  would  create  others  on  the  same 
subject.  At  present,  a  large  part  of  the  vacant  western  territory 
is  by  cession,  at  least,  if  not  by  any  anteriour  right,  the  common 
property  of  the  union.  If  that  were  at  an  end,  the  states  which 
have  made  cessions,  on  a  principle  of  federal  compromise,  would 
be  apt,  when  the  motive  of  the  grant  had  ceased,  to  reclaim  the 
lands  as  a  reversion.  The  other  states  would  no  doubt  insist  on 
a  proportion,  by  right  of  representation.  Their  argument  would 
be,  that  a  grant  once  made,  could  not  be  revoked ;  and  that  the 
justice  of  their  participating  in  territory  acquired  or  secured,  by 
the  joint  efforts  of  the  confederacy,  remained  undiminished.  If, 
contrary  to  probability,  it  should  be  admitted  by  all  the  states,  that 
each  had  a  right  to  a  share  of  this  common  stock,  there  would  still 
be  a  difficulty  to  be  surmounted,  as  to  a  proper  rule  of  appor- 
tionment. Different  principles  would  be  set  up  by  different  stateg 
for  this  purpose  ;  and  as  they  would  affect  the  opposite  interests 
of  the  parties,  they  might  not  easily  be  susceptible  of  a  pacific 
adjustment. 

In  the  wide  field  of  western  territory,  therefore,  we  perceive  an 
ample  theatre  for  hostile  pretensions,  without  any  umpire  or  comi- 


dSi  THE  FEDERALIST. 

mon  judge  to  interpose  between  the  contending  parties.  To  rea- 
son from  the  past  to  the  future,  we  shall  have  good  ground  to  ap- 
prcliend,  that  the  sword  would  sometimes  be  appealed  to  as  the 
arbiter  of  their  differences.  The  circumstances  of  the  dispute 
between  Connecticut  and  Pennsylvania,  respecting  the  lands  at 
Wyoming,  admonish  us  not  to  be  sanguine  in  expecting  an  easy 
accommodation  of  such  differences.  The  articles  of  confedera- 
tion obliged  the  parties  to  submit  the  matter  to  the  decision  of  a 
federal  court.  The  submission  was  made,  and  the  court  decided 
in  favour  of  Pennsylvania.  But  Connecticut  gave  strong  indica- 
tions of  dissatisfaction  with  that  determination  ;  nor  did  she  ap- 
pear to  be  entirely  resigned  to  it,  till  by  negotiation  and  manage- 
ment something  like  an  equivalent  was  found  for  the  loss  she  sup- 
posed herself  to  have  sustained.  Nothing  here  said  is  intended 
to  convey  the  slightest  censure  on  the  conduct  of  that  state.  She 
no  doubt  sincerely  believed  herself  to  have  been  injured  by  the 
decision  ;  and  states,  like  individuals,  acquiesce  with  great  reluc- 
tance in  determinations  to  their  disadvantage. 

Those  who  had  an  opportunity  of  seeing  the  inside  of  the  trans- 
actions, which  attended  tiie  progress  of  the  controversy  between 
this  state  and  the  district  of  Vermont,  can  vouch  the  opposition  we 
experienced,  as  well  from  states  not  interested,  as  from  those  which 
were  interested  in  the  claim  ;  and  can  attest  the  danger  to  which 
the  peace  of  the  confederacy  might  have  been  exposed,  had  this 
state  attempted  to  assert  its  rights  by  force.  Two  motives  pre- 
ponderated in  that  opposition;  one,  a  jealousy  entertained  of  our 
future  power  ;  another,  the  interest  of  certain  individuals  of  in- 
fluence in  the  neighbouring  states,  who  had  obtained  grants  of 
lands  under  the  actual  government  of  that  district.  Even  the 
states  which  brought  forward  claims,  in  contradiction  to  ours, 
seemed  more  solicitous  to  dismember  this  state,  than  to  establish 
their  own  pretensions.  These  were  New  Hampshire,  Massachu- 
setts, and  Connecticut.  New  Jersey  and  Rhode  Island,  upon  all 
occasions,  discovered  a  warm  zeal  for  the  independence  of  Ver- 
mont; and  Maryland,  until  alarmed  by  the  appearance  of  a  con- 
nexion between  Canada  and  that  place,  entered  deeply  into  the 
same  views.  These  being  small  states,  saw  with  an  unfriendly 
eye  the  perspective  of  our  growing  greatness.  In  a  review  of 
these  transactions,  we  may  trace  some  of  the  causes  which  would 
be  likely  to  embroil  the  states  with  each  other,  if  it  should  be  their 
unpropitious  destiny  to  become  disunited. 

The  competitions  of  commerce  would  be  another  fruitful  source 
of  contention.     The  states  less  favourably  circumstanced,  would 


THE  FEDERALIST.  33 

be  desirous  of  escaping  from  the  disadvantages  of  local  situation, 
and  of  sharing  in  the  advantages  of  their  more  fortunate  neigh- 
bours. Each  state,  or  separate  confederacy,  would  pursue  a  sys- 
tem of  commercial  polity  peculiar  to  itself.  This  would  occasion 
distinctions,  preferences,  and  exclusions,  which  would  beget  dis- 
content. The  habits  of  intercourse,  on  the  basis  of  equal  privi- 
leges, to  which  Ave  have  been  accustomed  from  the  earliest  settle- 
ment of  the  country,  would  give  a  keener  edge  to  those  causes  of 
discontent,  than  they  would  naturally  have,  independent  of  this 
circumstance.  We  should  be  ready  to  denominate  injuries  those 
things  which  were  in  reality  the  justifiable  acts  of  independent  sove- 
reignties consulting  a  distinct  interest.  The  spirit  of  enterprise, 
which  characterizes  the  commercial  part  of  America,  has  left  no 
occasion  of  displaying  itself  unimproved.  It  is  not  at  all  proba- 
ble, that  this  unbridled  spirit  would  pay  much  respect  to  those  reg- 
ulations of  trade,  by  which  particular  states  might  endeavour  to 
secure  exclusive  benefits  to  their  own  citizens.  The  infractions 
of  these  regulations  on  one  side,  the  efforts  to  prevent  and  repel 
them  on  the  other,  would  naturally  lead  to  outrages,  and  these  to 
reprisals  and  wars. 

The  opportunities  which  some  states  would  have  of  rendering 
others  tributary  to  them,  by  commercial  regulations,  would  be  im- 
patiently submitted  to  by  the  tributary  states.  The  relative  situa- 
tion of  New  York,  Connecticut,  and  New  Jersey,  would  afford  an 
example  of  this  kind.  New  York,  from  the  necessities  of  revenue, 
must  lay  duties  on  her  importations.  A  great  part  of  these  duties 
must  be  paid  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  two  other  states,  in  the  ca- 
pacity of  consumers  of  what  we  import.  New  York  would  neith- 
er be  willing,  nor  able  to  forego  this  advantage.  Her  citizens 
would  not  consent  that  a  duty  paid  by  them  should  be  remitted  in 
favour  of  the  citizens  of  her  neighbours  ;  nor  would  it  be  practi- 
cable, if  there  were  not  this  impediment  in  the  way,  to  distinguish 
the  customers  in  our  own  markets. 

Would  Connecticut  and  New  Jersey  long  submit  to  be  taxed  by 
New  York  for  her  exclusive  benefit  ?  Should  we  be  long  permit- 
ted to  remain  in  the  quiet  and  undisturbed  enjoyment  of  a  metrop- 
olis, from  the  possession  of  which  we  derived  an  advantage  so 
odious  to  our  neighbours,  and,  in  their  opinion,  so  oppressive  1 
Should  we  be  able  to  preserve  it  against  the  incumbent  weight  of 
Connecticut  on  the  one  side,  and  the  cooperating  pressure  of  ^ew 
Jersey  on  the  other  1  These  are  questions  that  temerity  alone 
will  answer  in  the  affirmative. 

The  public  debt  of  the  union  would  be  a  further  cause  of  coUis- 
3 


31  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ion  between  the  separate  states  or  confederacies.  The  apportion- 
ment, in  the  first  instance,  and  the  progressive  extinguishment, 
afterwards,  would  be  alike  productive  of  ill-humour  and  animosity. 
How  would  it  be  possible  to  agree  upon  a  rule  of  apportionment, 
satisfactory  to  all  ?  There  is  scarcely  any,  that  can  be  proposed, 
■which  is  entirely  free  from  real  objections.  These,  as  usual,  would 
be  exaggerated  by  the  adverse  interest  of  the  parties.  There  are 
even  dissimilar  views  among  the  states,  as  to  the  general  principle 
of  discharging  the  public  debt.  Some  of  them,  either  less  im- 
pressed with  the  importance  of  national  credit,  or  because  their 
citizens  have  little,  if  any,  immediate  interest  in  the  question,  feel 
an  indifference,  if  not  a  repugnance,  to  the  payment  of  the  domes- 
tic debt,  at  any  rate.  These  would  be  inclined  to  magnify  the 
difficulties  of  a  distribution.  Others  of  them,  a  numerous  body 
of  whose  citizens  are  creditors  of  the  public,  beyond  the  propor- 
tion of  the  state  in  the  total  amount  of  the  national  debt,  would  be 
strenuous  for  some  equitable  and  effectual  provision.  The  procras- 
tinations of  the  former,  would  excite  the  resentments  of  the  latter. 
The  settlement  of  a  rule  would  in  the  mean  time  be  postponed, 
by  real  differences  of  opinion,  and  affected  delays.  The  citizens 
of  the  states  interested  would  clamour ;  foreign  powers  would 
urge  for  the  satisfaction  of  their  just  demands  ;  and  the  peace 
of  the  states  would  be  exposed  to  the  double  contingency  of  exter- 
nal invasion,  and  internal  contention. 

But  suppose  the  difficulties  of  agreeing  upon  a  rule  surmounted, 
and  the  apportionment  made.  Still  there  is  great  room  to  sup- 
pose, that  the  rule  agreed  upon  would,  in  the  experiment,  be- found 
to  bear  harder  upon  some  states  than  upon  others.  Those  which 
were  sufferers  by  it,  would  naturally  seek  for  a  mitigation  of  the 
burthen.  The  others  would  as  naturally  be  disinclined  to  a  revis- 
ion, which  was  likely  to  end  in  an  increase  of  their  own  incum- 
brances. Their  refusal  would  afford  to  the  complaining  states  a 
pretext  for  withholding  their  contributions,  too  plausible  not  to 
be  embraced  with  avidity  ;  and  the  non-compliance  of  these  states 
with  their  engagements,  would  be  a  ground  of  bitter  dissension 
and  altercation.  If  even  the  rule  adopted  should  in  practice  justi- 
fy the  equality  of  its  principle,  still  delinquencies  in  payment,  on 
the  part  of  some  of  the  states,  would  result  from  a  diversity  of 
other  causes....the  real  deficiency  of  resources  ;  the  mismanage- 
ment of  their  finances  ;  accidental  disorders  in  the  administration 
of  the  government ;  and,  in  addition  to  the  rest,  the  reluctance 
with  which  men  commonly  part  with  money  for  purposes,  that 
have  outlived  the  exigencies  which  produced  them,  and  interfere 


THE  FEDERALIST.  9^ 

with  the  supply  of  immediate  wants.  Delinquencies  from  what- 
ever causes  would  be  productive  of  complaints,  recriminations, 
and  quarrels.  There  is,  perhaps,  nothing  more  likely  to  disturb 
the  tranquillity  of  nations,  than  their  being  bound  to  mutual  con- 
tributions for  any  common  object,  which  does  not  yield  an  equal 
and  coincident  benefit.  For  it  is  an  observation  as  true,  as  it  is 
trite,  that  there  is  nothing  men  differ  so  readily  about,  as  the  pay- 
ment of  money. 

Laws  in  violation  of  private  contracts,  as  they  amount  to  aggres- 
sions on  the  rights  of  those  states,  whose  citizens  are  injured  by 
them,  may  be  considered  as  another  probable  source  of  hostility. 
We  are  not  authorized  to  expect,  that  a  more  liberal,  or  more 
equitable  spirit  would  preside  over  the  legislations  of  the  individual 
states  hereafter,  if  unrestrained  by  any  additional  checks,  than 
we  have  heretofore  seen,  in  too  many  instances,  disgracing  their 
several  codes.  We  have  observed  the  disposition  to  retaliation, 
excited  in  Connecticut,  in  consequence  of  the  enormities  perpe- 
trated by  the  legislature  of  Rhode  Island  ;  and  we  may  reasonably 
infer,  that  in  similar  cases,  under  other  circumstances,  a  war,  not 
of  parchment,  but  of  the  sword,  would  chastise  such  atrocious 
breaches  of  moral  obligation  and  social  justice. 

The  probability  of  incompatible  alliances  between  the  different 
states,  or  confederacies,  and  different  foreign  nations,  and  the 
effects  of  this  situation  upon  the  peace  of  the  whole,  have  been 
sufficiently  unfolded  in  some  preceding  papers.  From  the  view 
they  have  exhibited  of  this  part  of  the  subject,  this  conclusion  is 
to  be  drawn,  that  America,  if  not  connected  at  all,  or  only  by  the 
feeble  tie  of  simple  league,  offensive  and  defensive,  would  by  the 
operation  of  such  opposite  and  jarring  alliances  be  gradually  en- 
tangled in  all  the  pernicious  labyrinths  of  European  politics  and 
wars  ;  and  by  the  destructive  contentions  of  the  parts,  into  which 
she  was  divided,  would  be  likely  to  become  a  prey  to  the  artifices 
and  machinations  of  powers  equally  the  enemies  of  them  all. 
Divide  et  impera  must  be  the  motto  of  every  nation,  that  either 
hates  or  fears  us.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  VIII. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  Effects  of  Internal  War  in  Producing  Standing  Armies,  and 
other  Institutions  Unfriendly  to  Liberty. 
Assuming  it  therefore  as  an  established  truth,  that  in  case  of 
disunion,  the  several  states,  or  such  combinations  of  them  as  might 


36  THE  FEDERALIST. 

happen  to  be  formed  out  of  the  wreck  of  the  general  confederacy, 
would  be  subject  to  those  vicissitudes  of  peace  and  war,  of  friend- 
ship and  enmity  with  each  other,  which  have  fallen  to  the  lot  of 
all  neisrhbouring  nations  not  united  under  one  government,  let  us 
enter  into  a  concise  detail  of  some  of  the  consequences  that  would 
attend  such  a  situation. 

War  between  the  states,  in  the  first  periods  of  their  separate 
existence,   would   be  accompanied  with   much   greater  distresses 
than  it  commonly  is  in  those  countries  where  regular  military  es- 
tabhshments  have  long  obtained.     The  disciplined  armies  always 
kept  on  foot  on  the  continent  of  Europe,  though  they  bear  a  ma- 
lignant aspect  to  liberty  and  economy,  have,  notwithstanding,  been 
productive  of  the  signal  advantage  of  rendering  sudden  conquests 
impracticable,  and  of  preventing  that  rapid  desolation,  which  used 
to  mark  the  progress  of  war,  prior  to  their   introduction.     The 
art  of  forUfication  has  contributed  to  the  same  ends.     The  nations 
of  Europe  are  encircled  with  chains  of  fortified  places,   which 
mutually  obstruct  invasion.     Campaigns  are  wasted  in  reducing 
two  or  three  frontier  garrisons,  to  gain  admittance  into  an  enemy's 
country.     Similar  impediments  occur    at  every   step,  to  exhaust 
the  strength,  and  delay  the  progress  of  an  invader.     Formerly,  an 
invading  army  would  penetrate  into  the   heart   of  a  neighbouring 
country,  almost  as  soon  as  intelligence  of  its   approach  could  be 
received  ;  but  now,    a  comparatively   small   force  of  disciplined 
troops,  acting  on  the  defensive,  with  the  aid  of  posts,  is   able  to 
impede,  and  finally  to  frustrate,  the  enterprises  of  one  much  more 
considerable.     The  history  of  war,  in  that  quarter  of  the  globe, 
is  no  longer  a  history  of  nations  subdued,   and  empires  overturn- 
ed ;  but  of  towns  taken  and  retaken,  of  battles  that  decide  noth- 
ing, of  retreats  more  beneficial  than  victories,  of  much  effort  and 
little  acquisition. 

In  this  country,  the  scene  would  be  altogether  reversed.  The 
jealousy  of  military  establishments,  would  postpone  them  as  long 
as  possible.  The  want  of  fortifications,  leaving  the  frontiers  of 
one  state  open  to  another,  would  facilitate  inroads.  The  popu- 
lous states  would,  with  little  difficulty,  overrun  their  less  populous 
neighbours.  Conquests  would  be  as  easy  to  be  made,  as  difficult 
to  be  retained.  War,  therefore,  would  be  desultory  and  predatory. 
Plunder  and  devastation  ever  march  in  the  train  of  irregulars. 
The  calamities  of  individuals  would  make  the  principal  figure  in 
the  events,  which  would  characterize  our  military  exploits. 

The  picture  is  not  too  highly   wrought ;  though,  I  confess,  it 
would  not  long  remain  a  just  one.     Safety  from  external  danger, 


THE  FEDERALIST.  9t. 

is  the  most  powerful  directer  of  national  conduct.  Even  the  ar- 
dent love  of  liberty  will,  after  a  time,  give  way  to  its  dictates. 
The  violent  destruction  of  life  and  property  incident  to  war  ;  the 
continual  effort  and  alarm  attendant  on  a  state  of  continual  dan- 
ger, will  compel  nations  the  most  attached  to  liberty,  to  resort 
for  repose  and  security  to  institutions  which  have  a  tendency  to 
destroy  their  civil  and  political  rights.  To  be  more  safe,  they  at 
length  become  willing  to  run  the  risk  of  being  less  free. 

The  institutions  chiefly  alluded  to,  are  standing  armies,  and 
the  correspondent  appendages  of  military  establishment.  Stand- 
ing armies,  it  is  said,  are  not  provided  against  in  the  new  consti- 
tution ;  and  it  is  thence  inferred  that  they  would  exist  under  it.* 
This  inference,  from  the  very  form  of  the  proposition,  is,  at  best, 
problematical  and  uncertain.  But  standing  armies,  it  may  be 
replied,  must  inevitably  result  from  a  dissolution  of  the  confedera- 
cy. Frequent  war,  and  constant  apprehension,  which  require  a 
state  of  as  constant  preparation,  will  infallibly  produce  them. 
The  weaker  states,  or  confederacies,  would  first  have  recourse  to 
them,  to  put  themselves  upon  an  equality  with  their  more  potent 
neighbours.  They  would  endeavour  to  supply  the  inferiority  of 
population  and  resources,  by  a  more  regular  and  effective  system 
of  defence,  by  disciplined  troops,  and  by  fortifications.  They 
would,  at  the  same  time,  be  obliged  to  strengthen  the  executive 
arm  of  government ;  in  doing  Avhich,  their  constitutions  would 
acquire  a  progressive  direction  towards  monarchy.  It  is  of  the 
nature  of  war  to  increase  the  executive,  at  the  expense  of  the  leg- 
islative authority. 

The  expedients  which  have  been  mentioned  would  soon  give  the 
states,  or  confederacies,  that  made  use  of  them,  a  superiority  over 
their  neighbours.  Small  states,  or  states  of  less  natural  strength, 
under  vigorous  governments,  and  with  the  assistance  of  disciplin- 
ed armies,  have  often  triumphed  over  large  states,  or  states  of 
greater  natural  strength,  which  have  been  destitute  of  these  ad- 
vantages. Neither  the  pride,  nor  the  safety,  of  the  more  import- 
ant states,  or  confederacies,  would  permit  them  long  to  submit  to 
this  mortifying  and  adventitious  superiority.  They  would  quickly 
resort  to  means  similar  to  those  by  which  it  had  been  effected,  to 
reinstate  themselves  in  their  lost  preeminence.  Thus  we  should 
in  a  little  time  see  established,  in  every  part  of  this  country,  the 

*  This  objection  wii!  be  fully  examined  in  its  proper  place ;  and  it  will  be  shown  that 
tlie  only  rational  precaution  which  could  have  been  taken  on  this  subject,  has  been  taken ; 
and  a  much  better  one  than  is  to  be  found  in  any  constitution  that  has  been  herctoforft 
fisuned  iu  America,  most  of  which  contain  no  guard  at  all  on  this  subject. 


33  THE  FEDERALIST. 

same  engines  of  despotism  which  have  been  the  scourge  of  the 
old  world.  This,  at  least,  would  be  the  natural  course  of  things  ; 
and  our  reasonings  will  be  likely  to  be  just,  in  proportion  as  they 
are  accommodated  to  this  standard. 

These  are  not  vague  inferences  deduced  from  speculative  defects 
in  the  constitution,  the  whole  power  of  which  is  lodged  in  the 
hands  of  the  people,  or  their  representatives  and  delegates  :  they 
are  solid  conclusions,  drawn  from  the  natural  and  necessary  pro- 
gress of  human  affairs. 

It  may  perhaps  be  asked,  by  way  of  objection,  why  did  not 
standing  armies  spring  up  out  of  the  contentions  which  so  often 
distracted  the  ancient  republics  of  Greece  1  Different  answers 
equally  satisfactory,  may  be  given  to  this  question.  The  indus- 
trious habits  of  the  people  of  the  present  day,  absorbed  in  the 
pursuits  of  gain,  and  devoted  to  the  improvements  of  agriculture 
and  commerce,  are  incompatible  with  the  condition  of  a  nation  of 
soldiers,  which  was  the  true  condition  of  the  people  of  those  re- 
publics. The  means  of  revenue,  which  have  been  so  greatly  mul- 
tiplied by  the  increase  of  gold  and  silver,  and  of  the  arts  of  in- 
dustry, and  the  science  of  finance,  which  is  the  offspring  of  mod- 
ern times,  concurring  with  the  habits  of  nations,  have  produced 
an  entire  revolution  in  the  system  of  war,  and  have  rendered  dis- 
ciplined armies,  distinct  from  the  body  of  the  citizens,  the  insep- 
arable companion  of  frequent  hostility. 

There  is  a  wide  difference  also,  between  military  establishments 
in  a  country  which,  by  its  situation,  is  seldom  exposed  to  invasions, 
and  in  one  which  is  often  subject  to  them,  and  always  apprehen- 
sive of  them.  The  rulers  of  the  former  can  have  no  good  pre- 
text, if  they  are  even  so  inclined,  to  keep  on  foot  armies  so  nu- 
merous as  must  of  necessity  be  maintained  in  the  latter.  These 
armies  being,  in  the  first  case,  rarely,  if  at  all,  called  into  activity 
for  interiour  defence,  the  people  are  in  no  danger  of  being  broken 
to  military  subordination.  The  laws  are  not  accustomed  to  relax- 
ations, in  favour  of  military  exigencies  ;  the  civil  state  remains  in 
full  vigour,  neither  corrupted,  nor  confounded  with  the  principles 
or  propensities  of  the  other  state.  The  smallness  of  the  army 
forbids  competition  with  the  natural  strength  of  the  community, 
and  the  citizens,  not  habituated  to  look  up  to  the  military  power 
for  protection,  or  to  submit  to  its  oppressions,  neither  love  nor  fear 
the  soldiery  :  they  view  them  with  a  spirit  of  jealous  acquiescence 
in  a  necessary  evil,  and  stand  ready  to  resist  a  power  which  they 
suppose  may  be  exerted  to  the  prejudice  of  their  rights. 

The  army  under  such  circumstances,  though  it  may  usefully  aid 


THE  FEDERALIST.  8i 

the  magistrate  to  suppress  a  small  faction,  or  an  occasional  mob, 
or  insurrection,  will  be  utterly  incompetent  to  the  purpose  of  en- 
forcing encroachments  against  the  united  efforts  of  the  great  body 
of  the  people. 

But  in  a  country,  where  the  perpetual  menacings  of  danger 
oblige  the  government  to  be  always  prepared  to  repel  it,  her  ar- 
mies must  be  numerous  enough  for  instant  defence.  The  contin- 
ual necessity  for  his  services  enhances  the  importance  of  the  sol- 
dier, and  proportionably  degrades  the  condition  of  the  citizen. 
The  military  state  becomes  elevated  above  the  civil.  The  inhabi- 
tants of  territories  often  the  theatre  of  war,  are  unavoidably  sub- 
jected to  frequent  infringements  on  their  rights,  which  serve  to 
weaken  their  sense  of  those  rights  ;  and  by  degrees,  the  people 
are  brought  to  consider  the  soldiery  not  only  as  their  protectors, 
but  as  their  superiours.  The  transition  from  this  disposition  to  that 
of  considering  them  as  masters,  is  neither  remote  nor  difficult : 
but  it  is  very  difficult  to  prevail  upon  a  people  under  such  impres- 
sions, to  make  a  bold,  or  effectual  resistance,  to  usurpations  sup- 
ported by  the  military  poM'er. 

The  kingdom  of  Great  Britain  falls  within  the  first  description. 
An  insular  situation,  and  a  powerful  marine,  guarding  it  in  a 
great  measure  against  the  possibility  of  foreign  invasion,  super" 
sede  the  necessity  of  a  numerous  army  within  the  kingdom.  A 
sufficient  force  to  make  head  against  a  sudden  descent  till  the  mi- 
litia could  have  time  to  rally  and  embody,  is  all  that  has  been 
deemed  requisite.  No  motive  of  national  policy  has  demanded, 
nor  would  public  opinion  have  tolerated,  a  larger  number  of  troops 
upon  its  domestic  establishment.  This  peculiar  felicity  of  situa- 
tion has,  in  a  great  degree,  contributed  to  preserve  the  liberty 
which  that  country  to  this  day  enjoys,  in  spite  of  the  prevalent 
venality  and  corruption.  If  Britain  had  been  situated  on  the  con- 
tinent, and  had  been  compelled,  as  she  would  have  been,  by  that 
situation,  to  make  her  military  establishments  at  home  coextensive 
Avith  those  of  the  other  great  powers  of  Europe,  she,  like  them^ 
would  in  all  probability,  at  this  day,  be  a  victim  to  the  absolute 
power  of  a  single  man.  It  is  possible,  though  not  easy,  for  the 
people  of  tliat  island  to  be  enslaved  from  other  causes  ;  but  it  can- 
not be  by  the  prowess  of  an  army  so  inconsiderable  as  that  which 
has  been  usually  kept  up  within  the  kingdom. 

If  we  are  wise  enough  to  preserve  the  union,  we  may  for  ages 
enjoy  an  advantage  similar  to  that  of  an  insulated  situation.  Eu- 
rope is  at  a  great  distance  from  us.  Her  colonies  in  our  vicinity 
will  be  likely  to  continue  too  much  disproportioned  in  strength,  to- 


40  THE  FEDERALIST. 

be  able  to  give  us  any  dangerous  annoyance.  Extensive  military 
establishments  cannot,  in  this  position,  be  necessary  to  our  securi- 
ty. But  if  we  should  be  disunited,  and  the  integral  parts  should 
either  remain  separated,  or,  which  is  most  probable,  should  be 
thrown  together  into  two  or  three  confederacies,  we  should  be,  in 
a  short  course  of  time,  in  the  predicament  of  the  continental  pow- 
ers of  Europe.  Our  liberties  would  be  a  prey  to  the  means  of  de- 
fendinof  ourselves  against  the  ambition  and  jealousy  of  each  other. 
This  is  an  idea  not  superficial  nor  futile,  but  solid  and  weighty. 
It  deserves  the  most  serious  and  mature  consideration  of  every 
prudent  and  honest  man,  of  whatever  party  :  if  such  men  will 
make  a  firm  and  solemn  pause,  and  meditate  dispassionately  on 
its  vast  importance ;  if  they  will  contemplate  it  in  all  its  attitudes, 
and  trace  it  to  all  its  consequences,  they  will  not  hesitate  to  part 
with  trivial  objections  to  a  constitution,  the  rejection  of  which 
would  in  all  probability  put  a  final  period  to  the  union.  The  airy 
phantoms  that  now  flit  before  the  distempered  imaginations  of 
some  of  its  adversaries,  would  then  quickly  give  place  to  tiie  more 
substantial  prospects  of  dangers,  real,  certain,  and  extremely  for- 
midable. PUBLIUS. 


NO.  IX. 

Bt  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  Utility  of  the  Union  as  a  Safeguard  against  Domestic  Faction 
and  Insurrection. 

A  FIRM  union  will  be  of  the  utmost  moment  to  the  peace  and 
liberty  of  the  states,  as  a  barrier  against  domestic  faction  and  in- 
surrection. 

It  is  impossible  to  read  the  history  of  the  petty  republics  of 
Greece  and  Italy,  without  feeling  sensations  of  horrour  and  dis- 
gust at  the  distractions  with  which  they  were  continually  agitated, 
and  at  the  rapid  succession  of  revolutions,  by  which  they  were 
kept  perpetually  vibrating  between  the  extremes  of  tyranny  and 
anarchy.  If  they  exhibit  occasional  calms,  these  only  serve  as 
shortlived  contrasts  to  the  furious  storms  that  are  to  succeed.  If 
now  and  then  intervals  of  felicity  open  themselves  to  view,  we 
behold  them  with  a  mixture  of  regret  arising  from  the  reflection, 
that  the  pleasing  scenes  before  us  are  soon  to  be  overwhelmed  by 
the  tempestuous  waves  of  sedition  and  party  rage.  If  momenta- 
ry rays  of  glory  break  forth  from  the  gloom,  while  they  dazzle  us 
with  a  transient  and  fleeting  brilliancy,  they  at  the  same  time  ad- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  41 

monish  us  to  lament,  that  the  vices  of  government  should  pervert 
the  direction,  and  tarnish  the  lustre,  of  those  bright  talents  and 
exalted  endowments,  for  which  the  favoured  soils  that  produced 
them  have  been  so  justly  celebrated. 

From  the  disorders  that  disfigure  the  annals  of  those  republics, 
the  advocates  of  despotism  have  drawn  arguments,  not  only 
against  the  forms  of  republican  government,  but  against  the  very 
principles  of  civil  liberty.  They  have  decried  all  free  government, 
as  inconsistent  with  the  order  of  society,  and  have  indulged  them- 
selves in  malicious  exultation  over  its  friends  and  partisans.  Hap- 
pily for  mankind,  stupendous  fabrics  reared  on  the  basis  of  liber- 
ty, which  have  flourished  for  ages,  have  in  a  few  glorious  instances- 
refuted  their  gloomy  sophisms.  And,  I  trust,  America  will  be  the 
broad  and  solid  foundation  of  other  edifices  not  less  magnificent, 
which  will  be  equally  permanent  monuments  of  their  errour. 

But  it  is  not  to  be  denied,  that  the  portraits  they  have  sketched 
of  republican  government,  were  too  just  copies  of  the  originals 
from  which  they  were  taken.  If  it  had  been  found  impracticable 
to  have  devised  models  of  a  more  perfect  structure,  the  enlighten- 
ed friends  of  liberty  would  have  been  obliged  to  abandon  the  cause 
of  that  species  of  government  as  indefensible.  The  science  of 
politics,  however,  like  most  other  sciences,  has  received  great  im- 
provement. The  efficacy  of  various  principles  is  now  well  under- 
stood, which  were  either  not  known  at  all,  or  imperfectly  known 
to  the  ancients.  The  regular  distribution  of  power  into  distinct 
departments  ;  the  introduction  of  legislative  balances  and  checks; 
the  institution  of  courts  composed  of  judges,  holding  their  offices 
during  good  behaviour ;  the  representation  of  the  people  in  the 
legislature,  by  deputies  of  their  own  election  ;  these  are  either 
wholly  new  discoveries,  or  have  made  their  principal  progress 
towards  perfection  in  modern  times.  They  are  means,  and  pow- 
erful means,  by  which  the  excellencies  of  republican  government 
may  be  retained,  and  its  imperfections  lessened  or  avoided.  To 
this  catalogue  of  circumstances,  that  tend  to  the  melioration  of 
popular  systems  of  civil  government,  I  shall  venture,  however 
novel  it  may  appear  to  some,  to  add  one  more,  on  a  principle 
which  has  been  made  the  foundation  of  an  objection  to  the  new 
constitution ;  I  mean  the  enlargement  of  the  okbit  within  which 
such  systems  are  to  revolve,  either  in  respect  to  the  dimensions  of 
a  single  state,  or  to  the  consolidation  of  several  smaller  states  into 
one  great  confederacy.  The  latter  is  that  which  immediately  con- 
cerns the  object  under  consideration.  It  will,  however,  be  of  use 
4 


42  THE  FEDERALIST: 

to  examine  the  principle  in  its  application  to  a  single  state,  which 
shall  be  attended  to  in  another  place.  i 

The  utility  of  a  confederacy,  as  well  to  suppress  faction,  and 
to  guard  the  internal  tranquilHty  of  states,  as  to  increase  their 
external  force  and  security,  is  in  reality  not  a  new  idea.  It  has 
been  practised  upon  in  different  countries  and  ages,  and  has  re- 
ceived the  sanction  of  the  most  approved  writers  on  the  subjects 
of  politics.  The  opponents  of  the  plan  proposed,  have  with  great 
assiduity  cited  and  circulated  the  observations  of  Montesquieu  on 
the  necessity  of  a  contracted  territory  for  a  republican  govern- 
ment. But  they  seem  not  to  have  been  apprised  of  the  sentiments 
of  that  great  man  expressed  in  another  part  of  his  work,  nor  to 
have  adverted  to  the  consequences  of  the  principle  to  which  they 
subscribe  with  such  ready  acquiescence. 

When  Montesquieu  recommends  a  small  extent  for  republics, 
the  standards  he  had  in  view  were  of  dimensions,  far  short  of  the 
limits  of  almost  every  one  of  these  states.  Neither  Virginia, 
Massachusetts,  Pennsylvania,  New  York,  North  Carolina,  nor 
Georgia,  can  by  any  means  be  compared  with  the  models  from 
which  he  reasoned,  and  to  which  the  terms  of  his  description  ap- 
ply. If  we  therefore  receive  his  ideas  on  this  point,  as  the  crite- 
rion of  truth,  we  shall  be  driven  to  the  alternative,  either  of  tak- 
ing refuge  at  once  in  the  arms  of  monarchy,  or  of  splitting  our- 
selves into  an  infinity  of  little,  jealous,  clasliing,  tumultuous  com- 
iTionwealths,  the  wretched  nurseries  of  unceasing  discord,  and  the 
miserable  objects  of  universal  pity  or  contemj)t.  Some  of  the 
writers,  who  have  come  forward  on  the  other  side  of  the  question, 
seem  to  have  been  aware  of  the  dilemma  ;  and  have  even  been 
bold  enough  to  hint  at  the  division  of  the  larger  states,  as  a  de- 
sirable thing.  Such  an  infatuated  policy,  such  a  desperate  expe- 
dient, might,  by  the  muhiplication  of  petty  offices,  answer  the 
views  of  men,  who  possess  not  qualifications  to  extend  their  influ- 
ence beyond  the  narrow  circles  of  personal  intrigue;  but  it  could 
never  promote  the  greatness  or  happiness  of  the  people  of  Amer- 

'  Referring  the  examination  of  the  principle  itself  to,  another 
place,  as  has  been  already  mentioned,  it  Avill  be  sutficietiit  to  re- 
mark here,  that  in  the  sense  of  the  author  who  has  been  imost  em- 
phatically quoted  upon  the  occasion,  it  would  only  dictg/te  a  re- 
duction of  the  SIZE  of  the  more  considerable  memberIs  of  the 
■union ;  but  would  not  militate  against  their  being)  all  com- 
prehended in  one  confederate  government.  And  this  i^  the  true 
question,  in  the  discussion  of  which  we  are  at  present  iinterested. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  43 

So  far  are  the  suggestions  of  Montesquieu  from  standing  in  op- 
position to  a  general  union  of  the  states,  that  he  explicitly  treats 
of  a  CONFEDERATE  REPUBLIC  as  the  expedient  for  extending  the 
sphere  of  popular  government,  and  reconciling  the  advantages  of 
monarchy  with  those  of  republicanism. 

"  It  is  very  probable,"  says  he,*  "  that  mankind  would  have 
"been  obliged,  at  length,  to  live  constantly  under  the  government 
"  of  a  SINGLE  PERSON,  had  they  not  contrived  a  kind  of  constitu- 
•*  tion,  that  has  all  the  internal  advantages  of  a  republican,  togeth- 
"  er  with  the  external  force  of  a  monarchical  government.  I 
"  mean  a  confederate  republic 

"  This  form  of  government  is  a  convention  by  which  several 
*'  smaller  states  agree  to  become  members  of  a  larger  one,  which 
"  they  intend  to  form.  It  is  a  kind  of  assemblage  of  societies, 
"  that  constitute  a  new  one,  capable  of  increasing  by  means  of 
"  new  associations,  till  they  arrive  to  such  a  degree  of  power  as 
"  to  be  able  to  provide  for  the  security  of  the  united  body. 

"  A  republic  of  this  kind,  able  to  withstand  an  external  force, 
"  may  support  itself  without  any  internal  corruption.  The  form 
"  of  this  society  prevents  all  manner  of  inconveniences. 

"  If  a  single  member  should  attempt  to  usurp  the  supreme  au- 
*♦  thority,  he  could  not  be  supposed  to  have  an  equal  authority  and 
"  credit  in  all  the  confederate  states.  Were  he  to  have  too  great 
"  influence  over  one,  this  would  alarm  the  rest.  Were  he  to  sub- 
"  due  a  part,  that  which  would  still  remain  free  might  oppose  him 
"  with  forces  independent  of  those  which  he  had  usurped,  and 
"  overpower  him  before  he  could  be  settled  in  his  usurpation. 

"  Should  a  popular  insurrection  happen  in  one  of  the  confeder- 
"  ate  states,  the  others  are  able  to  quell  it.  Should  abuses  creep 
"  into  one  part,  they  are  reformed  by  those  that  remain  sound. 
"  The  state  may  be  destroyed  on  one  side,  and  not  on  the  other ; 
"  the  confederacy  may  be  dissolved,  and  the  confederates  preserve 
"  their  sovereignty. 

"  As  this  government  is  composed  of  small  republics,  it  enjoys 
♦'  the  internal  happiness  of  each,  and  with  respect  to  its  external 
"  situation,  it  is  possessed,  by  means  of  the  association,  of  all  the 
"  advantages  of  large  monarchies." 

I  have  thought  it  proper  to  quote  at  length  these  interesting  pas- 
sages, because  they  contain  a  luminous  abridgment  of  the  princi- 
pal arguments  in  favour  of  the  union,  and  must  effectually  remove 
the  false  impressions  which  a  misapplication  of  the  other  parts  of 
the  work  was  calculated  to  produce.     They  have,  at  the  same  time 

*  Spirit  of  Laws,  Vol.  I,  Book  IX.  Chap.  1. 


44  THE  FEDERALIST. 

an  intimate  connexion  with  the  more  immediate  design  of  this 
paper,  which  is  to  illustrate  the  tendency  of  the  union  to  repress 
domestic  faction  and  insurrection. 

A  distinction,  more  subtle  than  accurate,  has  been  raised  be- 
tween a  confederacy  and  a  consolidation  of  the  estates.  The  essen- 
tial characteristic  of  the  first,  is  said  to  be  the  restriction  of  its 
authority  to  the  members  in  their  collective  capacities,  without 
reaching  to  the  individuals  of  whom  they  are  composed.  It  is 
contended,  that  the  national  council  ought  to  have  no  concern  with 
any  object  of  internal  administration.  An  exact  equality  of  suf- 
frage between  the  members,  has  also  been  insisted  upon  as  a  lead- 
ing feature  of  a  confederate  government.  These  positions  are,  in 
the  main,  arbitrary  ;  they  are  supported  neither  by  principle  nor 
precedent.  It  has  indeed  happened,  that  governments  of  this 
kind  have  generally  operated  in  the  manner  which  the  distinction 
taken  notice  of  supposes  to  be  inherent  in  their  nature  ;  but  there 
have  been  in  most  of  them,  extensive  exceptions  to  the  practice, 
which  serve  to  prove,  as  far  as  example  will  go,  that  there  is  no 
absolute  rule  on  the  subject.  And  it  will  be  clearly  shown,  in  the 
course  of  this  investigation,  that  as  far  as  the  principle  contended 
for  has  prevailed,  it  has  been  the  cause  of  incuiable  disorder  and 
imbecility  in  the  government. 

The  definition  of  a  confederate  republic  seems  simply  to  be,  "  an 
assemblage  of  societies,"  or  an  association  of  two  or  more  states 
into  one  state.  The  extent,  modifications,  and  objects,  of  the 
federal  authority,  are  mere  matters  of  discretion.  So  long  as  the 
separate  organization  of  the  members  be  not  abolished,  so  long  as 
it  exists  by  a  constitutional  necessity  for  local  purposes,  though  it 
should  be  in  perfect  subordination  to  the  general  authority  of  the 
union,  it  would  still  be,  in  fact  and  in  theory,  an  association  of 
states,  or  a  confederacy.  The  proposed  constitution,  so  far  from 
implying  an  abolition  of  the  state  governments,  makes  them  con- 
stituent parts  of  the  national  sovereignty,  by  allowing  them  a  di- 
rect representation  in  the  senate,  and  leaves  in  their  possession  cer- 
tain exclusive,  and  very  important,  portions  of  the  sovereign  power. 
This  fully  corresponds,  in  every  rational  import  of  the  terms, 
with  the  idea  of  a  federal  government. 

In  the  Lycian  confederacy,  which  consisted  of  twenty-three 
CITIES,  or  republics,  the  largest  were  entitled  to  three  votes  in  the 
COMMON  COUNCIL,  those  of  the  middle  class  to  two,  and  the  smallest 
to  one.  The  common  council  had  the  appointment  of  all  the 
judges  and  magistrates  of  the  respective  cities.  This  was  cer- 
tainly the  most  delicate  species  of  interference  in  their  internal 


THE  FEDERALIST.  4A 

administration ;  for  if  there  be  any  thing  that  seems  exclusively 
appropriated  to  the  local  jurisdictions,  it  is  the  appointment  of 
their  own  officers.  Yet  Montesquieu,  speaking  of  this  associa- 
tion, says,  "  Were  I  to  give  a  model  of  an  excellent  confederate 
"  republic,  it  would  be  that  of  Lycia."  Thus  we  perceive,  that 
the  distinctions  insisted  upon,  were  not  within  the  contemplation 
of  this  enlightened  writer  ;  and  we  shall  be  led  to  conclude,  that 
they  are  the  novel  refinements  of  an  erroneous  theory. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  X. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued. 

Among  the  numerous  advantages  promised  by  a  well  construct- 
ed union,  none  deserves  to  be  more  accurately  developed  than  its 
tendency  to  break  and  control  the  violence  of  faction.  The  friend 
of  popular  governments,  never  finds  himself  so  much  alarmed 
for  their  character  and  fate,  as  when  he  contemplates  their  pro- 
pensity to  this  dangerous  vice.  lie  will  not  fail,  therefore,  to  set 
a  due  value  on  any  plan  which,  without  violating  the  principles  to 
which  he  is  attached,  provides  a  proper  cure  for  it.  The  insta- 
bility, injustice,  and  confusion,  introduced  into  the  public  councils, 
have,  in  truth,  been  the  mortal  diseases  under  which  popular  gov- 
ernments have  everywhere  perished  ;  as  they  continue  to  be  the  fa- 
vourite and  fruitful  topics  from  which  the  adversaries  to  liberty 
derive  their  most  specious  declamations.  The  valuable  improve- 
ments made  by  the  American  constitutions  on  the  popular  models, 
both  ancient  and  modern,  cannot  certainly  be  too  much  admired  ; 
but  it  would  be  an  unwarrantable  partiality,  to  contend  that  they 
have  as  effectually  obviated  the  danger  on  this  side,  as  was  wish- 
ed and  expected.  Complaints  are  everywhere  heard  from  our 
most  considerate  and  virtuous  citizens,  equally  the  friends  of  pub- 
lic and  private  faith,  and  of  public  and  personal  liberty,  that  our 
governments  are  too  unstable ;  that  the  public  good  is  disregard- 
ed in  the  conflicts  of  rival  parties  ;  and  that  measures  are  too 
often  decided,  not  according  to  the  rules  of  justice,  and  the  rights 
of  the  minor  party,  but  by  the  superiour  force  of  an  interested  and 
overbearing  majority.  However  anxiously  we  may  wish  that  these 
complaints  had  no  foundation,  the  evidence  of  known  facts  will 
not  permit  us  to  deny  that  they  are  in  some  degree  true.     It  will 


4f  THE  FEDERALIST. 

be  found,  indeed,  on  a  candid  review  of  our  situation,  that  some 
of  the  distresses  under  which  we  labour,  have  been  erroneously 
charged  on  the  operation  of  our  governments  ;  but  it  will  be  found, 
at  the  same  time,  that  other  causes  will  not  alone  account  for  many 
of  our  heaviest  misfortunes;  and.  particularly,  for  that  prevailing 
and  increasing  distrust  of  public  engagements,  and  alarm  for  pri- 
vate rights,  which  are  echoed  from  one  end  of  the  continent  to 
the  other.  These  must  be  chiefly,  if  not  wholly,  effects  of  the 
unsteadiness  and  injustice,  with  which  a  factious  spirit  has  tainted 
our  public  administrations. 

By  a  faction,  I  understand  a  number  of  citizens,  whether 
amounting  to  majority  or  minority  of  the  whole,  who  are  united 
and  actuated  by  some  common  impulse  of  passion,  or  of  interest, 
adverse  to  the  rights  of  other  citizens,  or  to  the  permanent  and 
aggregate  interests  of  the  community. 

There  are  two  methods  of  curing  the  mischiefs  of  faction  : 
The  one,  by  removing  its  causes  ;  the  other,  by  controUng  its  ef- 
fects. 

There  are  again  two  methods  of  removing  the  causes  of  fac- 
tion :  The  one,  by  destroying  the  liberty  which  is  essential  to  its 
existence  ;  the  other,  by  giving  to  every  citizen  the  same  opinions, 
the  same  passions,  and  the  same  interests. 

It  could  never  be  more  truly  said,  than  of  the  first  remedy,  that 
it  was  worse  than  the  disease.  Liberty  is  to  faction  what  air  is  to 
fire,  an  aliment,  without  which  it  instantly  expires.  But  it  could 
not  be  a  less  folly  to  abolish  liberty,  which  is  essential  to  political 
life,  because  it  nourishes  faction,  than  it  would  be  to  wish  the  an- 
nihilation of  air,  which  is  essential  to  animal  life,  because  it  im- 
parts to  fire  its  destructive  agency. 

The  second  expedient  is  as  impracticable,  as  the  first  would  be 
unwise.  As  long  as  the  reason  of  man  continues  fallible,  and  he 
is  at  liberty  to  exercise  it,  different  opinions  will  be  formed.  As 
long  as  the  connection  subsists  between  his  reason  and  his  self- 
love,  his  opinions  and  his  passions  will  have  a  reciprocal  influence 
on  each  other  ;  and  the  former  will  be  objects  to  which  the  latter 
will  attach  themselves.  The  diversity  in  the  faculties  of  men, 
from  which  the  rights  of  property  originate,  is  not  less  an  insu- 
perable obstacle  to  an  uniformity  of  interests.  The  protection  of 
these  faculties  is  the  first  object  of  government.  From  the  pro- 
tection of  different  and  unequal  faculties  of  acquiring  property, 
the  possession  of  different  degrees  and  kinds  of  property  imme- 
diately results  ;  and  from  the  influence  of  these  on  the  sentiments 


THE  FEDERALIST.  47 

and  views  of  the  respective  proprietors,  ensues  a  division  of  the 
society  into  different  interests  and  parties. 

.The  latent  causes  of  faction  are  thus  sown  in  the  nature  of 
man ;  and  we  see  them  everywhere  brought  into  different  degrees 
of  activity,  according  to  the  different  circumstances  of  civil  socie- 
ty. A  zeal  for  different  opinions  concerning  religion,  concerning 
government,  and  many  other  points,  as  well  of  speculation  as  of 
practice  ;  an  attachment  to  different  leaders,  ambitiously  contend- 
ing for  preeminence  and  power  ;  or  to  persons  of  other  descrip- 
lions,  whose  fortunes  have  been  interesting  to  the  human  passions, 
have,  in  turn,  divided  mankind  into  parties,  inflamed  them  with 
mutual  animosity,  and  rendered  them  much  more  disposed  to  vex 
and  oppress  each  other,  than  to  cooperate  for  their  common  good. 
So  strong  is  this  propensity  of  mankind,  to  fall  into  mutual  ani- 
mosities, that  where  no  substantial  occasion  presents  itself,  the 
most  frivolous  and  fanciful  distinctions  have  been  sufficient  to  kin- 
dle their  unfriendly  passions,  and  excite  their  most  violent  conflicts. 
But  the  most  common  and  durable  source  of  factions,  has  been 
the  various  and  unequal  distribution  of  property.  Those  who 
hold,  and  those  who  are  without  property,  have  ever  formed  dis- 
tinct interests  in  society.  Those  who  are  creditors,  and  those 
who  are  debtors,  fall  under  a  like  discrimination.  A  lauded  inter- 
est, a  manufacturing  interest,  a  mercantile  interest,  a  moneyed 
interest,  with  many  lesser  interests,  grow  up  of  necessity  in  civiliz- 
ed nations,  and  divide  them  into  different  classes,  actuated  by  dif- 
ferent sentiments  and  views.  The  regulation  of  these  various 
and  interfering  interests  forms  the  principal  task  of  modern  legis- 
lation, and  involves  the  spirit  of  party  and  faction  in  the  necessa- 
ry and  ordinary  operations  of  government. 

No  man  is  allowed  to  be  a  judge  in  his  own  cause ;  because  his 
interest  will  certainly  bias  his  judgment,  and,  not  improbably, 
corrupt  his  integrity.  With  equal,  nay,  with  greater  reason,  a 
body  of  men  are  unfit  to  be  both  judges  and  parties  at  the  same 
time  ;  yet  what  are  many  of  the  most  important  acts  of  leo-isla- 
tion,  but  so  many  judicial  determinations,  not  indeed  concerning 
the  rights  of  single  persons,  but.  concerning  the  rights  of  large 
bodies  of  citizens  1  and  what  are  the  different  classes  of  legisla- 
tors, but  advocates  and  parties  to  the  causes  which  they  deter- 
mine ?  Is  a  law  proposed  concerning  private  debts  ?  It  is  a  ques- 
tion to  which  the  creditors  are  parties  on  one  side,  and  the  debtors 
on  the  other.  Justice  ought  to  hold  the  balance  between  them. 
Yet  the  parties  are,  and  must  be,  themselves  the  judges :  and  the 
most  numerous  party,  or,  in  other  words,  the  most  powerful  fac- 


48  THE  FEDERALIST. 

tion,  must  be  expected  to  prevail.  Shall  domestic  manufactures 
be  encouraged,  and  in  what  degree,  by  restrictions  on  foreign  man- 
ufactures 1  are  questions  which  would  be  differently  decided  by 
the  landed  and  the  manufacturing  classes ;  and  probably  by  neither 
with  a  sole  regard  to  justice  and  the  public  good.  The  apportion- 
ment of  taxes,  on  the  various  descriptions  of  property,  is  an  act 
which  seems  to  require  the  most  exact  impartiality;  yet  there  is, 
perhaps,  no  legislative  act,  in  which  greater  opportunity  nnd  tempt- 
ation are  given  to  a  predominant  party,  to  trample  on  the  rules  of 
justice.  Every  shilling,  with  which  they  overburden  the  inferiour 
number,  is  a  shilling  saved  to  their  own  pockets. 

It  is  in  vain  to  say,  that  enlightened  statesmen  will  be  able  to 
adjust  these  clashing  interests,  and  render  them  all  subservient  to 
the  public  good.  Enlightened  statesmen  will  not  always  be  at  the 
helm  :  nor,  in  many  cases,  can  such  an  adjustment  be  made  at  all, 
without  taking  into  view  indirect  and  remote  considerations,  which 
will  rarely  prevail  over  the  immediate  interest  which  one  party 
may  find  in  disregarding  the  rights  of  another,  or  the  good  of  the 
whole. 

The  inference  to  which  we  are  brought  is,  that  the  causes  of 
faction  cannot  be  removed  ;  and  that  relief  is  only  to  be  sought  in 
the  means  of  controling  its  effects. 

If  a  faction  consists  of  less  than  a  majority,  relief  is  supplied 
by  the  republican  principle,  which  enables  the  majority  to  defeat 
its  sinister  views,  by  regular  vote.  It  may  clog  the  administra- 
tion, it  may  convulse  the  society  ;  but  it  will  be  unable  to  execute 
and  mask  its  violence  under  the  forms  of  the  constitution.  When 
a  majority  is  included  in  a  faction,  the  form  of  popular  govern- 
ment, on  the  other  hand,  enables  it  to  sacrifice  to  its  ruling  passion 
or  interest,  both  the  public  good  and  the  rights  of  other  citizens. 
To  secure  the  public  good,  and  private  rights,  against  the  danger 
of  such  a  faction,  and  at  the  same  time  to  preserve  the  spirit  and 
the  form  of  a  popular  government,  is  then  the  great  object  to 
which  our  inquiries  are  directed.  Let  me  add,  that  it  is  the  great 
desideratum,  by  which  alone  this  form  of  government  can  be  res- 
cued from  the  opprobrium  under  which  it  has  so  long  laboured, 
and  be  recommended  to  the  esteem  and  adoption  of  mankind. 

By  what  means  is  this  object  attainable  1  Evidently  by  one  of 
two  only.  Either  the  existence  of  the  same  passion  or  interest  in 
a  majority,  at  the  same  time,  must  be  prevented  ;  or  the  majority, 
having  such  coexistent  passion  or  interest,  must  be  rendered,  by 
their  number  and  local  situation,  unable  to  concert  and  carry  into 
effect  schemes  of  oppression.     If  the  impulse  and  the  opportunity 


THE  FEDERALIST.  h 

be  suffered  to  coincide,  we  well  know,  that  neither  moral  nor  relig- 
ious motives  can  be  relied  on  as  an  adequate  control.  They  are 
not  found  to  be  such  on  the  injustice  and  violence  of  individuals, 
and  lose  their  efficacy  in  proportion  to  the  number  combined  to- 
gether ;  that  is  in  proportion  as  their  efficacy  becomes  needful. 

From  this  view  of  the  subject,  it  may  be  concluded,  that  a  pure 
democracy,  by  which  I  mean  a  society  consisting  of  a  small  num- 
ber of  citizens,  who  assemble  and  administer  the  government  in 
person,  can  admit  of  no  cure  from  the  mischiefs  of  faction.  A 
common  passion  or  interest  will,  in  almost  every  case,  be  felt  by 
a  majority  of  the  whole ;  a  communication  and  concert,  results 
from  the  form  of  government  itself;  and  there  is  nothing  to  check 
the  inducements  to  sacrifice  the  weaker  party,  or  an  obnoxious 
individual.  Hence  it  is,  that  such  democracies  have  ever  been  spec- 
tacles of  turbulence  and  contention  ;  have  ever  been  found  incom- 
patible with  personal  security,  or  the  rights  of  property  ;  and  have, 
in  general,  been  as  short  in  their  lives,  as  they  have  been  violent 
in  their  deaths.  Theoretic  politicians,  who  have  patronized  this 
.species  of  government,  have  erroneously  supposed,  that  by  reduc- 
ing mankind  to  a  perfect  equality  in  their  political  rights,  they 
would,  at  the  same  time,  be  perfectly  equalized  and  assimilated  in 
their  possessions,  their  opinions,  and  their  passions. 

A  republic,  by  which  I  mean  a  government  in  which  the  scheme 
of  representation  takes  place,  opens  a  different  prospect,  and 
promises  the  cure  for  which  we  are  seeking.  Let  us  examine  the 
points  in  which  it  varies  from  pure  democracy,  and  we  shall  com- 
prehend both  the  nature  of  the  cure  and  the  efficacy  which  it  must 
derive  from  the  union. 

The  two  great  points  of  difference,  between  a  democracy  and  a 
republic,  are,  first,  the  delegation  of  the  government,  in  the  latter, 
to  a  small  number  of  citizens  elected  by  the  rest ;  secondly,  the 
greater  number  of  citizens,  and  greater  sphere  of  country,  over 
which  the  latter  may  be  extended. 

The  effect  of  the  first  difference  is,  on  the  one  hand,  to  refine 
and  enlarge  the  public  views,  by  passing  them  through  the  medi- 
um of  a  chosen  body  of  citizens,  whose  wisdom  may  best  discern 
the  true  interest  of  their  country,  and  whose  patriotism  and  love 
of  justice,  will  be  least  likely  to  sacrifice  it  to  temporary  or  partial 
considerations.  Under  such  a  regulation,  it  may  well  happen, 
that  the  public  voice,  pronounced  by  the  representatives  of  the 
people,  will  be  more  consonant  to  the  public  good,  than  if  pro- 
nounced by  the  people  themselves,  convened  for  the  purpose.  On 
the  other  hand  the  effect  Ynay  be  inverted.     Men  of  factious  tem- 


50  THE  FEDERALIST. 

pers,  of  local  prejudices,  or  of  sinister  designs,  may  by  intrigue, 
by  corruption,  or  by  other  means,  first  obtain  the  suffrages,  and 
then  betray  the  interests  of  the  people.  The  question  resulting 
is,  whether  small  or  extensive  republics  are  most  favourable  to  the 
election  of  proper  guardians  of  the  public  weal ;  and  it  is  clearly 
decided  in  favour  of  the  latter  by  two  obvious  considerations. 

In  the  first  place,  it  is  to  be  remarked,  that  however  small  the 
republic  may  be,  the  representatives  must  be  raised  to  a  certain 
number,  in  order  to  guard  against  the  cabals  of  a  few  ;  and  that 
however  large  it  may  be,  they  must  be  limited  to  a  certain  num- 
lyo-,  in  order  to  guard  against  the  confusion  of  a  multitude. 
Hence,  the  number  of  representatives  in  the  two  cases  not  being 
in  proportion  to  that  of  the  constituents,  and  being  proportionally 
greatest  in  the  small  republic,  it  follows,  that  if  the  proportion  of 
fit  characters  be  not  less  in  the  large  than  in  the  small  republic, 
the  former  will  present  a  greater  option,  and  consequently  a  great- 
er probability  of  a  fit  choice. 

In  the  next  place,  as  each  representative  will  be  chosen  by  a 
greater  number  of  citizens  in  the  large  than  in  the  small  republic, 
it  will  be  more  difficult  for  unworthy  candidates  to  practice  with 
success  the  vicious  arts,  by  which  elections  are  too  often  carried  ; 
and  the  suffrages  of  the  people  being  more  free,  will  be  more 
likely  to  centre  in  men  who  possess  the  most  attractive  merit,  and 
the  most  diffusive  and  established  characters. 

It  must  be  confessed,  that  in  this,  as  in  most  other  cases,  there 
is  a  mean,  on  both  sides  of  which  inconveniences  will  be  found  to 
lie.  By  enlarging  too  much  the  number  of  electors,  you  render 
the  representative  too  little  acquainted  with  all  their  local  circum- 
stances and  lesser  interests  ;  as  by  reducing  it  too  much,  you  ren- 
der him  unduly  attached  to  these,  and  too  little  fit  to  comprehend 
and  pursue  great  and  national  objects.  The  federal  constitution 
forms  a  happy  combination  in  this  respect ;  the  great  and  aggre- 
gate interests  being  referred  to  the  national,  the  local  and  particu- 
lar to  the  state  legislatures. 

The  other  point  of  difierence  is,  the  greater  number  of  citizens, 
and  extent  of  territory,  which  may  be  brought  within  the  compass 
of  republican,  than  of  democratic  government ;  and  it  is  this  cir- 
cumstance principally  which  renders  factious  combinations  less  to 
be  dreaded  in  the  former,  than  in  the  latter.  The  smaller  the 
society,  the  fewer  probably  will  be  the  distinct  parties  and  in- 
terests composing  it ;  the  fewer  the  distinct  parties  and  interests, 
the  more  frequently  will  a  majority  be  found  of  the  same  party ; 
and  the  smaller  the  number  of  individuals  composing  a  majority. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  51 

and  the  smaller  the  compass  within  which  they  are  placed,  the 
more  easily  will  they  concert  and  execute  their  plans  of  oppres- 
sion. Extend  the  sphere,  and  you  take  in  a  greater  variety  of 
parties  and  interests  ;  you  make  it  less  probable  that  a  majority 
of  the  whole  will  have  a  common  motive  to  invade  the  rights  of 
other  citizens;  or  if  such  a  common  motive  exists,  it  will  be  more 
difficult  for  all  who  feel  it  to  discover  their  own  strength,  and  to 
act  in  unison  with  each  other.  Besides  other  impediments,  it  may 
be  remarked,  that  where  tliere  is  a  consciousness  of  unjust  or  dis- 
honourable purposes,  communication  is  always  checked  by  dis- 
trust, in  proportion  to  the  number  whose  concurrence  is  necessary. 

Hence,  it  clearly  appears,  that  tlie  same  advantage,  which  a 
republic  has  over  a  democracy,  in  controlling  the  eftects  of  fac- 
tion, is  enjoyed  by  a  large  over  a  small  republic. ...is  enjoyed  by 
the  union  over  the  states  composing  it.  Does  tbis  advantage  con- 
sist in  the  substitution  of  representatives,  whose  enlightened  views 
and  virtuous  sentiments  render  them  superiour  to  local  prejudices, 
and  to  schemes  of  injustice  1  It  will  not  be  denied,  that  the  rep- 
resentation of  the  union  will  be  most  likely  to  possess  these  requi- 
site endowments.  Does  it  consist  in  the  greater  security  aftbrded 
by  a  greater  variety  of  parties,  against  the  event  of  any  one  party 
being  able  to  outnumber  and  oppress  the  rest  ?  In  an  equal  de- 
gree does  the  increased  variety  of  parties,  comprised  within  the 
union,  increase  this  security.  Does  it,  in  fine,  consist  in  the  great- 
er obstacles  opposed  to  the  concert  and  accomplishment  of  the 
secret  wishes  of  an  unjust  and  interested  majority  ?  Here,  again, 
the  extent  of  the  union  gives  it  the  most  palpable  advantage. 

The  influence  of  factious  leaders  may  kindle  a  flame  within 
their  particular  states,  but  will  be  unable  to  spread  a  general  con- 
flagration through  the  other  states  :  a  religious  sect  may  degener- 
ate into  a  political  faction  in  a  part  of  the  confederacy  ;  but  the 
variety  of  sects  dispersed  over  the  entire  face  of  it,  must  secure 
the  national  councils  against  any  danger  from  that  source :  a  rage 
for  paper  money,  for  an  abolition  of  debts,  for  an  equal  division 
of  property,  or  for  any  other  improper  or  wicked  project,  will  be 
less  apt  to  pervade  the  whole  body  of  the  union,  than  a  particular 
member  of  it ;  in  the  same  proportion  as  such  a  malady  is  more 
likely  to  taint  a  particular  county  or  district,  than  an  entire  state. 

In  the  extent  and  proper  structure  of  the  union,  therefore,  we 
behold  a  republican  remedy  for  the  diseases  most  incident  to  re- 
publican government.  And  according  to  the  degree  of  pleasure 
and  pride  we  feel  in  being  republicans,  ought  to  be  our  zeal  in 
cherishing  the  spirit,  and  supporting  the  character  of  federalists. 

PUBLIUS. 


62  THE  FEDERALIST. 

NO.  XI. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  Utility  of  the  Union  in  respect  to  Commerce  anfl  a  Navy^ 

The  importance  of  the  union,  in  a  commercial  light,  is  one  of 
those  points,  about  which  there  is  least  room  to  entertain  a  differ- 
ence of  opinion,  and  which  has  in  fact  commanded  the  most  gen- 
eral assent  of  men,  who  have  any  acquaintance  with  the  subject. 
This  applies  as  well  to  our  intercourse  with  foreign  countries,  as 
with  each  other. 

There  are  appearances  to  authorize  a  supposition,  that  the  ad- 
venturous spirit,  which  distinguishes  the  commercial  character  of 
America,  has  already  excited  uneasy  sensations  in  several  of  the 
maritime  powers  of  Europe.  They  seem  to  be  apprehensive  of 
our  too  great  interference  in  that  carrying  trade,  which  is  the  sup- 
port of  their  navigation,  and  the  foundation  of  their  naval  strength. 
Those  of  them,  which  have  colonies  in  America,  look  forward, 
with  painful  solicitude,  to  what  this  country  is  capable  of  becom- 
ing. They  foresee  the  dangers,  that  may  threaten  their  American 
dominions  from  the  neighbourhood  of  states,  which  have  all  the 
dispositions,  and  would  possess  all  the  means,  requisite  to  the  cre- 
ation of  a  powerful  marine.  Impressions  of  this  kind  will  natu- 
rally indicate  the  policy  of  fostering  divisions  among  us,  and  de- 
priving us,  as  far  as  possible,  of  an  active  commerce  in  our  own 
bottoms.  This  would  answer  then  the  threefold  purpose  of  pre- 
venting our  interference  in  their  navigation,  of  monopolizing  the 
profits  of  our  trade,  and  of  clipping  the  wings  on  which  we  might 
soar  to  a  dangerous  greatness.  Did  not  prudence  forbid  the  detail, 
it  would  not  be  difficult  to  trace,  by  facts,  the  workings  of  this 
policy  to  the  cabinets  of  ministers.  If  we  continue  united,  w'e 
may,  in  a  variety  of  ways,  counteract  a  policy  so  unfriendly  to 
our  prosperity.  By  prohibitory  regidations,  extending  at  the  same 
time  throughout  the  states,  we  may  oblige  foreign  countries  to  bid 
against  each  other,  for  the  privileges  of  our  markets.  This  asser- 
tion will  not  appear  chimerical  to  those  who  are  able  to  appreciate 
the  importance,  to  any  manufacturing  nation,  of  the  markets  of 
three  millions  of  people,  increasing  in  rapid  progression;  for  the 
most  part,  exclusively  addicted  to  agriculture,  and  likely  from  lo- 
cal circumstances  to  remain  in  this  disposition  ;  and  the  immense 
difference  there  would  be  to  the  trade  and  navigation  of  such  a 
nation,  between  a  direct  communication  in  its  own  ships,  and  an 
indirect  conveyance  of  its  products  and  returns,  to  and  from 
America,  in  the  sliips  of  anotlicr  country.     Suppose,  for  instance, 


THE  FEDERALIST.  6^ 

we  had  a  government  in  America,  capable  of  excluding  Great 
Britain  (with  whom  we  have  at  present  no  treaty  of  commerce) 
from  all  our  ports ;  what  would  be  the  probable  operation  of  this 
step  upon  her  politics  1  Would  it  not  enable  us  to  negotiate,  with 
the  fairest  prospect  of  success,  for  commercial  privileges  of  the 
most  valuable  and  extensive  kind,  in  the  dominions  of  that  king- 
dom 1  When  these  questions  have  been  asked,  upon  other  occa- 
sions, they  have  received  a  plausible,  but  not  a  solid  or  satisfactory 
answer.  It  has  been  said,  that  prohibitions  on  our  part  would  pro- 
duce no  change  in  the  system  of  Britain  ;  because  she  could  prosr 
ecute  her  trade  with  us,  through  the  medium  of  the  Dutch,  who 
would  be  her  immediate  customers  and  paymasters  for  those  arti- 
cles which  were  wanted  for  the  supply  of  our  markets.  But  would 
not  her  navigation  be  materially  injured,  by  the  loss  of  the  impor- 
tant advantage  of  being  her  own  carrier  in  that  trade?  Would 
not  the  principal  part  of  its  profits  be  intercepted  by  the  Dutch, 
as  a  compensation  for  their  agency  and  risk  ?  Would  not  the 
mere  circumstance  of  freight  occasion  a  considerable  deduction  t 
Would  not  so  circuitous  an  intercourse  facilitate  the  competitions 
of  other  nations,  by  enhancing  the  price  of  British  commodities 
in  our  markets,  and  by  transferring  to  other  hands  the  manage- 
ment of  this  interesting  branch  of  the  British  commerce  ? 

A  mature  consideration  of  the  objects,  suggested  by  these  ques- 
tions, will  justify  a  belief,  that  the  real  disadvantages  to  Great 
Britain,  from  such  a  state  of  things,  conspiring  with  the  preposses- 
sions of  a  great  part  of  the  nation  in  favour  of  the  American  trade, 
and  with  the  importunities  of  the  West  India  islands,  would  pro- 
duce a  relaxation  in  her  present  system,  and  would  let  us  into  the 
enjoyment  of  privileges  in  the  markets  of  those  islands  and  else- 
where, from  which  our  trade  would  derive  the  most  substantial 
benefits.  Such  a  point  gained  from  the  British  government,  and 
which  could  not  be  expected  without  an  equivalent  in  exemptions 
and  immunities  in  our  markets,  would  be  likely  to  have  a  corres- 
pondent effect  on  the  conduct  of  other  nations,  who  would  not  be 
inclined  to  see  themselves  altogether  supplanted  in  our  trade. 

A  further  resource  for  influencing  the  conduct  of  European  na^ 
tions  towards  us,  in  this  respect,  would  arise  from  the  establish- 
ment of  a  federal  navy.  There  can  be  no  doubt,  that  the  contin- 
uance of  the  union,  under  an  eflficient  government,  would  put  it  in 
our  power,  at  a  period  not  very  distant,  to  create  a  navy,  which, 
if  it  could  not  vie  with  those  of  the  great  maritime  powers,  would 
at  least  be  of  respectable  weight,  if  thrown  into  the  scale  of  either 
of  two  contending  parties.     This  would  be  more  particularly  the 


64  THE  FEDERALIST. 

case,  in  relation  to  operations  in  the  West  Indies.  A  few  ships  of 
the  line,  sent  opportunely  to  the  reinforcement  of  either  side, 
would  often  be  sufficient  to  decide  the  fate  of  a  campaign,  on  the 
event  of  which,  interests  of  the  greatest  magnitude  were  suspend- 
ed. Our  position  is,  in  this  respect,  a  very  commanding  one. 
And  if  to  this  consideration  we  add  that  of  the  usefulness  of  sup- 
plies from  this  country,  in  the  prosecution  of  military  operations 
in  the  West  Indies,  it  will  readily  be  perceived,  that  a  situation  so 
favourable,  would  enable  us  to  bargain  with  great  advantage  for 
commercial  privileges.  A  price  would  be  set,  not  only  upon  our 
friendship,  but  upon  our  neutrality.  By  a  steady  adherence  to  the 
union,  we  may  hope,  ere  long,  to  become  the  arbiter  of  Europe 
in  America  ;  and  to  be  able  to  incline  the  balance  of  European 
competitions  in  this  part  of  the  world,  as  our  interest  may  dictate. 

But  in  the  reverse  of  this  eligible  situation,  we  shall  discover, 
that  the  rivalships  of  the  parts  would  make  them  checks  upon 
each  other,  and  would  frustrate  all  the  tempting  advantages  which 
nature  has  kindly  placed  within  our  reach.  In  a  state  so  insignifi- 
cant, our  commerce  would  be  a  prey  to  the  wanton  intermeddlings 
of  all  nations  at  war  with  each  other;  who,  having  nothing  to 
fear  from  us,  would,  with  little  scruple  or  remorse,  supply  their 
wants  by  depredations  on  our  property,  as  often  as  it  fell  in  their 
way.  The  rights  of  neutrality  will  only  be  respected,  when  they 
are  defended  by  an  adequate  power.  A  nation,  despicable  by  its 
weakness,  forfeits  even  the  privilege  of  being  neutral. 

Under  a  vigorous  national  government,  the  natural  strength  and 
resources  of  the  country,  directed  to  a  common  interest,  would 
baffle  all  the  combinations  of  European  jealousy  to  restrain  our 
growth.  This  situation  would  even  take  away  the  motive  to  such 
combinations,  by  inducing  an  impracticability  of  success.  An  ac- 
tive commerce,  an  extensive  navigation,  a  flourishing  marine,  would 
then  be  the  inevitable  offspring  of  moral  and  physical  necessity. 
We  might  defy  the  little  arts  of  little  politicians  to  control,  or 
vary,  the  irresistible  and  unchangeable  course  of  nature. 

But  in  a  state  of  disunion,  these  combinations  might  exist,  and 
might  operate  with  success.  It  would  be  in  the  power  of  the  mar- 
itime nations,  availing  themselves  of  our  universal  impotence,  to 
prescribe  the  conditions  of  our  political  existence  ;  and  as  they 
have  a  common  interest  in  being  our  carriers,  and  still  more  in 
preventing  us  from  becoming  theirs,  they  would,  in  all  probabili- 
ty, combine  to  embarrass  our  navigation  in  such  a  manner,  as 
would  in  eftect  destroy  it,  and  confine  us  to  a  passive  commeece. 
We  should  thus  be  compelled  to  content  ourselves  with  the  first 


THE  FEDERALIST.  55 

price  of  our  commodities,  and  to  see  the  profits  of  our  trade 
snatched  from  us,  to  enrich  our  enemies  and  persecutors.  That 
unequalled  spirit  of  enterprise,  which  signaUzes  the  genius  of  the 
American  merchants  and  navigators,  and  which  is  in  itself  an  in- 
exhaustible mine  of  national  wealth,  would  be  stifled  and  lost ; 
and  poverty  and  disgrace  would  overspread  a  country,  which,  with 
wisdom,  might  make  herself  the  admiration  and  envy  of  the  world. 

There  are  rights  of  great  moment  to  the  trade  of  America, 
which  are  rights  of  the  union  :  I  allude  to  the  fisheries  to  the  navi- 
gation of  the  lakes,  and  to  that  of  the  Mississippi.  The  dissolu- 
tion of  the  confederacy  would  give  room  for  delicate  questions, 
concerning  the  future  existence  of  these  rights  ;  which  the  interest 
of  more  jjowerful  partners  would  hardly  fail  to  solve  to  our  dis- 
advantage. The  disposition  of  Spain,  with  regard  to  the  Missis- 
sippi, needs  no  comment.  France  and  Britain  are  concerned 
with  us  in  the  fisheries:  and  view  them  as  of  the  utmost  moment 
to  their  navigation.  They,  of  course,  would  hardly  remain  long 
indifferent  to  that  decided  mastery,  of  which  experience  has 
shown  us  to  be  possesed,  in  this  valuable  branch  of  traffic ;  and 
by  which  we  are  able  to  undersell  those  nations  in  their  own 
markets.  What  more  natural,  than  that  they  should  be  disposed 
to  exclude  from  the  list  such  dangerous  competitors  1 

This  branch  of  trade  ought  not  to  be  considered  as  a  partial 
benefit.  All  the  navigating  states  may  in  different  degrees  advan- 
tageously participate  in  it ;  and  under  circumstances  of  a  greater 
extension  of  mercantile  capacity,  would  not  be  unlikely  to  do  it. 
As  a  nursery  of  seamen,  it  now  is,  or,  when  time  shall  have  more 
nearly  assimilated  the  principles  of  navigation  in  the  several 
states,  will  become  an  universal  resource.  To  the  establishment 
of  a  navy,  it  must  be  indispensable. 

To  this  great  national  object,  a  navy,  union  will  contribute  in 
various  ways.  Every  institution  will  grow  and  flourish  in  propor- 
tion to  the  quantity  and  extent  of  the  means  concentred  towards 
its  formation  and  support.  A  navy  of  the  United  States,  as  it 
would  embrace  the  resources  of  all,  is  an  object  far  less  remote 
than  a  navy  of  any  single  state,  or  partial  confederacy,  which 
w'ould  only  embrace  the  resources  of  a  part.  It  happens,  indeed 
that  different  portions  of  confederated  America  possess  each  some 
peculiar  advantage  for  this  essential  establishment.  The  more 
southern  states  furnish  in  greater  abundance  certain  kinds  of 
naval  stores....tar,  pitch,  and  turpentine.  Their  wood,  for  the 
construction  of  ships,  is  also  of  a  more  solid  and  lasting  texture. 
The  difference  in  the  duration  of  the  ships  of  which  the   navy 


66  THE  FEDERALIST. 

mio-ht  be  composed,  if  chiefly  constructed  of  southern  ^vood, 
would  be  of  signal  importance,  either  in  the  view  of  naval  strength, 
or  of  national  economy.  Some  of  the  southern  and  of  the  middle 
states  yield  a  greater  plenty  of  iron,  and  of  better  quality.  Sea- 
men must  chiefly  be  drawn  from  the  northern  hive.  The  necessi- 
ty of  naval  protection  to  external  or  maritime  commerce,  and  the 
conduciveness  of  that  species  of  commerce  to  the  prosperity  of  a 
navy,  are  points  too  manifest  to  require  a  particular  elucidation. 
They,  by  a  kind  of  reaction,  mutually  beneficial,  promote  each 
other. 

An  unrestrained  intercourse  between  the  states  themselves,  will 
advance  the  trade  of  each,  by  an  interchange  of  their  respective 
productions,  not  only  for  the  supply  of  reciprocal  wants,  but  for 
exportation  to  foreign  markets.  The  veins  of  commerce  in  every 
part  will  be  replenished,  and  will  acquire  additional  motion  and 
vigour  from  a  free  circulation  of  the  commodities  of  every  part. 
Commercial  enterprise  will  have  much  greater  scope,  from  the 
diversity  in  the  productions  of  different  states.  When  the  staple 
of  one  fails,  from  a  bad  harvest  or  unproductive  crop,  it  can  call 
to  its  aid  the  staple  of  another.  The  variety,  not  less  than  the 
value  of  products  for  exportation,  contributes  to  the  activity  of 
foreign  commerce.  It  can  be  conducted  upon  much  better  terms, 
with  a  large  number  of  materials  of  a  given  value,  than  with 
a  small  number  of  materials  of  the  same  value ;  arising  from 
the  competitions  of  trade  and  from  the  fluctuations  of  markets. 
Particular  articles  may  be  in  great  demand  at  certain  periods,  and 
unsaleable  at  others  ;  but  if  there  be  a  variety  of  articles,  it  can 
scarcely  happen  that  they  should  all  be  at  one  time  in  the  latter 
predicament ;  and  on  this  account,  the  operation  of  the  merchant 
would  be  less  liable  to  any  considerable  obstruction  or  stagnation. 
The  speculative  trader  will  at  once  perceive  the  force  of  these  ob- 
servations ;  and  will  acknowledge,  that  the  aggregate  balance  of 
the  commerce  of  the  United  States,  would  bid  fair  to  be  much 
more  favourable  than  that  of  the  Thirteen  States,  without  union, 
or  with  partial  unions. 

It  may  perhaps  be  replied  to  this,  that  whether  the  states  are 
united,  or  disunited,  there  would  still  be  an  intimate  intercourse 
between  them,  which  would  answer  the  same  ends:  but  this  inter- 
course would  be  fettered,  interrupted,  and  narrowed,  by  a  multi- 
plicity of  causes  ;  which  in  the  course  of  these  papers  have  been 
amply  detailed.  An  unity  of  commercial,  as  well  as  political  in- 
terests, can  only  result  from  an  unity  of  government. 

There  are  other  points  of  view,  in  which  this  subject  might  be 


THE  FEDERALIST.  fi7 

placed,  of  a  striking  and  animating  kind.  But  they  would  lead 
us  too  far  into  the  regions  of  futurity,  and  would  involve  topics 
not  proper  for  newspaper  discussion.  I  shall  briefly  observe,  that 
our  situation  invites,  and  our  interests  prompt  us,  to  aim  at  an 
ascendant  in  the  system  of  American  affairs.  The  world  may 
politically,  as  well  as  geographically,  be  divided  into  four  parts, 
each  having  a  distinct  set  of  interests.  Unhappily  for  the  other 
three,  Europe,  by  her  arms  and  by  her  negotiations,  by  force  and  by 
fraud,  has,  in  different  degrees,  extended  her  dominion  over  them 
all.  Africa,  Asia,  and  America,  have  successively  felt  her  domina- 
tion. The  superiority  she  has  long  maintained,  has  tempted  her 
to  plume  herself  as  the  mistress  of  the  world,  and  to  consider  the 
rest  of  mankind  as  created  for  her  benefit.  Men,  admired  as  pro- 
found philosophers,  have,  in  direct  terms,  attributed  to  her  inhabi- 
tants a  physical  superiority  ;  and  have  gravely  asserted,  that  all 
animals,  and  with  them  the  human  species,  degenerate  in  Ameri- 
ca ;  that  even  dogs  cease  to  bark,  after  having  breathed  awhile  in 
our  atmosphere.*  Facts  have  too  long  supported  these  arrogant 
pretensions  of  the  European  ;  it  belongs  to  us  to  vindicate  the  hon- 
our of  the  human  race,  and  to  teach  that  assuming  brother  modera- 
tion. Union  will  enable  us  to  do  it.  Disunion  will  add  another 
victim  to  his  triumphs.  Let  Americans  disdain  to  be  the  instru- 
ments of  European  greatness  !  Let  the  Thirteen  States,  bound  to- 
gether in  a  strict  aiid  indissoluble  union,  concur  in  erecting  one 
great  American  system,  superiour  to  the  control  of  all  transatlan- 
tic force  or  influence,  and  able  to  dictate  the  terras  of  the  connex- 
ion between  the  old  and  the  new  world  !  PUBLIUS. 


1\0.  XIL 
Bt  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  Utility  of  the  Union  in  Respect  to  Revenue* 

The  effects  of  union,  upon  the  commercial  prosperity  of  the 
states,  have  been  sufficiently  delineated.  Its  tendency  to  promote 
the  interests  of  revenue,  will  be  the  subject  of  our  present  inquiry. 

A  prosperous  commerce  is  now  perceived  and  acknowledged, 
by  all  enlightened  statesmen,  to  be  the  most  useful,  as  well  as  the 
most  productive,  source  of  national  wealth ;  and  has  accordingly 
become  a  primary  object  of  their  political  cares.  By  multiplying 
the  means  of  gratification ;  by  promoting  the  introduction  and 

*  Recherches  philosophiquM  nir  les  Americaias. 


58  THE  FEDERALIST. 

circulation  of  the  precious  metals,  those  darling  objects  of  human 
avarice  and  enterprise,  it  serves  to  vivifj  and  invigorate  all  the 
channels  of  industry,  and  to  make  them  flow  with  greater  activity 
and  copiousness.  The  assiduous  merchant,  the  laborious  husband- 
man, the  active  mechanic,  and  the  industrious  manufacturer....all 
orders  of  men,  look  forward  with  eager  expectation,  and  growing 
alacrity,  to  this  pleasing  reward  of  their  toils.  The  often  agitat- 
ed question  between  argriculture  and  commerce,  has,  from  indu- 
bitable experience,  received  a  decision,  which  has  silenced  the  ri- 
valships  that  once  subsisted  between  them,  and  has  proved,  to  the 
entire  satisfaction  of  their  friends,  that  their  interests  are  intimate- 
ly blended  and  interwoven.  It  has  been  found,  in  various  coun- 
tries, that  in  proportion  as  commerce  has  flourished,  land  has  risen 
in  value.  And  how  could  it  have  happened  otherwise  ?  Could 
that  which  procures  a  freer  vent  for  the  products  of  the  earth  ; 
which  furnishes  new  incitements  to  the  cultivators  of  land  ;  which 
is  the  most  powerful  instrument  in  increasing  the  quantity  of 
money  in  a  state. ...could  that,  in  fine,  which  is  the  faithful  hand- 
maid of  labour  and  industry,  in  every  shape,  fail  to  augment  the 
value  of  that  article,  which  is  the  prolific  parent  of  far  the  great- 
est part  of  the  objects,  upon  which  they  are  exerted  1  It  is  aston- 
ishing, that  so  simple  a  truth  should  ever  have  had  an  adversary  ; 
and  it  is  one  among  a  multitude  of  proofs,  how  apt  a  spirit  of  ill- 
informed  jealousy,  or  of  too  great  abstraction  and  refinement  is, 
to  lead  men  astray  from  the  plainest  paths  of  reason  and  convic- 
tion. 

The  ability  of  a  country  to  pay  taxes,  must  always  be  propor- 
tioned, in  a  great  degree,  to  the  quantity  of  money  in  circulation, 
and  to  the  celerity  with  which  it  circulates.  Commerce,  contrib- 
uting to  both  these  objects,  must  of  necessity  render  the  payment 
of  taxes  easier,  and  facilitate  the  requisite  supplies  to  the  treasury. 
The  hereditary  dominions  of  the  emperor  of  Germany,  contain  a 
great  extent  of  fertile,  cultivated,  and  populous  territory,  a  large 
proportion  of  which  is  situated  in  mild  and  luxuriant  climates. 
In  some  parts  of  this  territory  are  to  be  found  the  best  gold  and 
silver  mines  in  Europe.  And  yet,  from  the  want  of  the  fostering 
influence  of  commerce,  that  monarch  can  boast  but  slender  rev- 
enues. He  has  several  times  been  compelled  to  owe  obligations 
to  the  pecuniary  succours  of  other  nations,  for  the  preservation  of 
his  essential  interests  ;  and  is  unable,  upon  the  strength  of  his  own 
resources,  to  sustain  a  long  or  continued  war. 

But  it  is  not  in  this  aspect  of  the  subject  alone,  that  union  will 
be  seen  to  conduce  to  the  purposes  of  revenue.     There  are  other 


THE  FEDERALIST.  59 

points  of  view,  in  which  its  influence  will  appear  more  immediate 
and  decisive.  It  is  evident  from  the  state  of  the  country,  from  the 
habits  of  the  people,  from  the  experience  we  have  had  on  the 
point  itself,  that  it  is  impracticable  to  raise  any  very  considerable 
sums  by  direct  taxation.  Tax  laws  have  in  vain  been  multiplied  ; 
new  methods  to  enforce  the  collection  have  in  vain  been  tried* 
the  public  expectation  has  been  uniformly  disappointed,  and  the 
treasuries  of  the  states  have  remained  empty.  The  popular  sys- 
tem of  administration,  inherent  in  the  nature  of  popular  govern- 
ment, coinciding  with  the  real  scarcity  of  money,  incident  to  a 
languid  and  mutilated  state  of  trade,  has  hitherto  defeated  every 
experiment  for  extensive  collections,  and  has  at  length  taught  the 
different  legislatures  the  folly  of  attempting  them. 

No  person  acquainted  with  what  happens  in  other  countries, 
will  be  surprised  at  this  circumstance.  In  so  opulent  a  nation  as 
that  of  Britain,  where  direct  taxes,  from  superiour  wealth,  must 
be  much  more  tolerable,  and,  from  the  vigour  of  the  government, 
much  more  practicable,  than  in  America,  far  the  greatest  part  of 
the  national  revenue  is  derived  from  taxes  of  the  indirect  kind  • 
from  imposts,  and  from  excises.  Duties  on  imported  articles, 
form  a  large  branch  of  this  latter  description. 

In  America,  it  is  evident,  that  we  must  a  long  time  depend  for 
the  means  of  revenue,  chiefly  on  such  duties.  In  most  parts  of  it, 
excises  must  be  confined  within  a  narrow  compass.  The  genius 
of  the  people  will  illy  brook  the  inquisitive  and  peremptory  spirit 
of  excise  laws.  The  pockets  of  the  farmers,  on  the  other  hand, 
will  reluctantly  yield  but  scanty  supplies,  in  the  unwelcome  shape 
of  impositions  on  their  houses  and  lands  ;  and  personal  property 
is  too  precarious  and  invisible  a  fund  to  be  laid  hold  of  in  any 
other  way,  tlian  by  the  imperceptible  agency  of  taxes  on  consump- 
tion. 

If  these  remarks  have  any  foundation,  that  state  of  things 
which  will  best  enable  us  to  improve  and  extend  so  valuable  a  re- 
source, must  be  the  best  adapted  to  our  political  welfare.  And  it 
cannot  admit  of  a  serious  doubt,  that  this  state  of  things  must  rest 
on  the  basis  of  a  general  union.  As  far  as  this  would  be  condu- 
cive to  the  interests  of  commerce,  so  far  it  must  tend  to  the  exten- 
sion of  the  revenue  to  be  drawn  from  that  source.  As  far  as  it 
would  contribute  to  tender  regulations  for  the  collection  of  the 
duties  more  simple  and  efiicacious,  so  far  it  must  serve  to  answer 
the  purposes  of  making  the  same  rate  of  duties  more  productive, 
and  of  putting  it  into  the  power  of  the  government  to  increase  the 
rate,,  without  prejudice  to  trade. 


60  THE  FEDERALIST. 

The  relative  situation  of  these  states ;  the  number  of  rivers 
with  which  they  are  intersected,  and  of  bays  that  wash  their 
shores ;  the  facility  of  communication  in  every  direction  ;  the 
affinity  of  language  and  manners  ;  the  familiar  habits  of  inter- 
course ;  all  these  are  circumstances  that  would  conspire  to  render 
an  illicit  trade  between  them  a  matter  of  little  difficulty ;  and 
would  ensure  frequent  evasions  of  the  commercial  regulations  of 
each  other.  The  separate  states,  or  confederacies,  would  be  driv- 
en by  mutual  jealousy  to  avoid  the  temptations  to  that  kind  of 
trade,  by  the  lowness  of  their  duties.  The  temper  of  our  govern- 
ments for  a  long  time  to  come,  would  not  permit  those  rigorous 
precautions,  by  which  the  European  nations  guard  the  avenues 
into  their  respective  countries,  as  well  by  land  as  by  water,  and 
which,  even  there,  are  found  insufficient  obstacles  to  the  adven- 
turous stratagems  of  avarice. 

In  France,  there  is  an  army  of  patrols  (as  they  are  called)  con- 
stantly employed  to  secure  her  fiscal  regulations  against  the  in- 
roads of  the  dealers  in  contraband.  Mr.  Neckar  computes  the 
number  of  these  patrols  at  upwards  of  twenty  thousand.  This 
proves  the  immense  difficulty  in  preventing  that  species  of  traffic, 
where  there  is  an  inland  communication,  and  shows  in  a  strong 
light  the  disadvantages,  with  which  the  collection  of  duties  in  this 
country  would  be  incumbered,  if  by  disunion  the  states  should  be 
placed  in  a  situation  with  respect  to  each  other,  resembling  that 
of  France  with  respect  to  her  neighbours.  The  arbitrary  and  vex- 
atious powers  with  which  the  patrols  are  necessarily  armed,  would 
be  intolerable  in  a  free  country. 

If,  on  the  contrary,  there  be  but  one  government,  pervading  all 
the  states,  there  will  be,  as  to  the  principal  part  of  our  commerce, 
but  ONE  SIDE  to  guard. ...the  Atlantic  coast.  Vessels  arriving  di- 
rectly from  foreign  countries,  laden  with  valuable  cargoes,  would 
rarely  choose  to  expose  themselves  to  the  complicated  and  critical 
perils,  which  would  attend  attempts  to  unlade  prior  to  their  com- 
ing into  port.  They  would  have  to  dread  both  the  dangers  of  the 
coast,  and  of  detection,  as  well  after,  as  before  their  arrival  at  the 
places  of  their  final  destination.  An  ordinary  degree  of  vigilance 
would  be  competent  to  the  prevention  of  any  material  infractions 
upon  the  rights  of  the  revenue.  A  few  armed  vessels,  judiciously 
stationed  and  employed,  might,  at  small  expense,  be  made  useful 
sentinels  of  the  laws.  And  the  government,  having  the  same  in- 
terest to  provide  against  violations  everywhere,  the  cooperation  of 
its  measures  in  each  state,  would  have  a  powerful  tendency  to  ren- 
der them  effiictual.     Here  also  we  should  preserve,  by  union,  an 


THE  FEDERALIST.  61 

advantage  which  nature  holds  out  to  us,  and  which  would  be  re- 
linquished by  separation.  The  United  States  lie  at  a  great  dis- 
tance from  Europe,  and  at  a  considerable  distance  from  all  other 
places,  with  which  they  would  have  extensive  connexions  of  for- 
eign trade.  The  passage  from  them  to  us  in  a  few  hours,  or  in  a 
single  night,  as  between  the  coasts  of  France  and  Britain,  and  of 
otlier  neighbouring  nations,  would  be  impracticable.  This  is  a 
prodigious  security  against  a  direct  contraband  with  foreign  coun- 
tries ;  but  a  circuitous  contraband  to  one  state,  through  the  medi- 
um of  another,  would  be  both  easy  and  safe.  The  difference  be- 
tween a  direct  importation  from  abroad,  and  an  indirect  importa- 
tion through  the  channel  of  an  adjoining  state,  in  small  parcels,  ac- 
cording to  time  and  opportunity,  with  the  additional  facilities  of  in- 
land communication,  must  be  palpable  to  every  man  of  discernment. 

It  is,  therefore,  evident,  that  one  national  government  would  be 
able,  at  much  less  expense,  to  extend  the  duties  on  imports,  beyond 
comparison  further,  than  would  be  practicable  to  the  states  sepa- 
rately, or  to  any  partial  confederacies  :  hitherto  I  believe  it  may 
safely  be  asserted,  that  these  duties  have  not  upon  an  average  ex- 
ceeded in  any  state  three  per  cent.  In  France  they  are  estimated 
at  about  fifteen  per  cent,  and  in  Britain  the  proportion  is  still 
greater.  There  seems  to  be  nothing  to  hinder  their  being  increas- 
ed in  this  country,  to  at  least  treble  their  present  amount.  The 
single  article  of  ardent  spirits,  under  federal  regulation,  might  be 
made  to  furnish  a  considerable  revenue.  According  to  the  ratio 
of  importation  into  this  state,  the  whole  quantity  imported  into 
the  United  States  may,  at  a  low  computation,  be  estimated  at  four 
millions  of  gallons  ;  which,  at  a  shilling  per  gallon,  would  produce 
two  hundred  thousand  pounds.  That  article  would  well  bear  this 
rate  of  duty  ;  and  if  it  should  tend  to  diminish  the  consumption 
of  it,  such  an  effect  would  be  equally  favourable  to  the  agricul- 
ture, to  the  economy,  to  the  morals,  and  to  the  health  of  society. 
There  is,  perhaps,  nothing  so  much  a  subject  of  national  extrava- 
gance, as  this  very  article. 

What  will  be  the  consequence,  if  we  are  not  able  to  avail  our- 
selves of  the  resource  in  question  in  its  full  extent  1  A  nation 
cannot  long  exist  without  revenue.  Destitute  of  this  essential 
support,  it  must  resign  its  independence,  and  sink  into  the  degraded 
condition  of  a  province.  This  is  an  extremity  to  which  no  gov- 
ernment will  of  choice  accede.  Revenue  therefore  must  be  had 
at  all  events.  In  this  country,  if  the  principal  part  be  not  drawn 
from  commerce,  it  must  fall  with  oppressive  weight  upon  land.  It 
has  been  already  intimated  that  excises,  in  their  true  signification, 


63  THE  FEDERALIST. 

are  too  little  in  unison  with  the  feelings  of  the  people,  to  admit 
of  great  use  being  made  of  that  mode  of  taxation ;  nor,  indeed, 
in  the  states  where  almost  the  sole  employment  is  agriculture,  are 
the  objects  proper  for  excise  sufficiently  numerous,  to  permit  very 
ample  collections  in  that  way.  Personal  estate,  as  before  remark- 
ed, from  the  difficulty  of  tracing  it,  cannot  be  subjected  to  large 
contributions,  by  any  other  means  than  by  taxes  on  consumption. 
In  populous  cities,  it  may  be  enough  the  subject  of  conjecture, 
to  occasion  the  oppression  of  individuals,  without  much  aggregate 
benefit  to  the  state  ;  but  beyond  these  circles,  it  must,  in  a  great 
measure,  escape  the  eye  and  the  hand  of  the  taxgatherer.  As  the 
necessities  of  the  state,  nevertheless,  must  be  satisfied  in  some 
mode,  the  defect  of  other  resources  must  throw  the  principal 
weio-ht  of  the  public  burthens  on  the  possessors  of  land.  And  as, 
on  the  other  hand,  the  wants  of  the  government  can  never  obtain 
an  adequate  supply,  unless  all  the  sources  of  revenue  are  open  to 
its  demands,  the  finances  of  the  community,  under  such  embar- 
rassments, cannot  be  put  into  a  situation  consistent  with  its  re- 
spectability or  its  security.  Thus  we  shall  not  even  have  the  con- 
solations of  a  full  treasury,  to  atone  for  the  oppression  of  that 
valuable  class  of  citizens,  who  are  employed  in  the  cultivation  of 
the  soil.  But  public  and  private  distress  will  keep  pace  with  each 
other  in  gloomy  concert ;  and  unite  in  deploring  the  infatuation 
of  those  counsels  which  led  to  disunion.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XIII. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

Tlie  same  Subject  Continued,  with  a  Vieio  to  Economy. 

As  connected  with  the  subject  of  revenue,  we  may  with  proprie- 
ty con.sider  that  of  economy.  The  money  saved  from  one  object, 
may  be  usefully  applied  to  another ;  and  there  will  be  so  much  the 
less  to  be  drawn  from  the  pockets  of  the  people.  If  the  states  be 
united  under  one  government,  there  will  be  but  one  national  civil 
list  to  support :  if  they  are  divided  into  several  confederacies, 
there  will  be  as  many  different  national  civil  lists  to  be  provided 
for;  and  each  of  them,  as  to  the  principal  departments,  coexten- 
sive with  that  which  would  be  necessary  for  a  government  of  the 
whole.  The  entire  separation  of  the  states  into  thirteen  uncon- 
nected sovereignties,  is  a  project  too  extravagant,  and  too  replete 
with  danger,  to  have  many  advocates.  The  ideas  of  men  who 
speculate  upon  the  dismemberment  of  the  empire,  seem  generally 


THE  FEDERALIST.  ^ 

tamed  towards  three  confederacies ;  one  consisting  of  the  four 
northern,  another  of  the  four  middle,  and  a  third  of  the  five  south- 
ern states.  There  is  little  probability  that  there  would  be  a  great 
number.  According  to  this  distribution,  each  confederacy  would 
comprise  an  extent  of  territory  larger  than  that  of  the  kingdom 
of  Great  Britain.  No  well-informed  man  will  suppose  that  the 
affairs  of  such  a  confederacy  can  be  properly  regulated  by  a  gov- 
ernment less  comprehensive  in  its  organs  or  institutions,  than  that 
which  has  been  proposed  by  the  convention.  When  the  dimen- 
sions of  a  state  attain  to  a  cei'tain  magnitude,  it  requires  the  same 
energy  of  government,  and  the  same  forms  of  administration, 
which  are  requisite  in  one  of  much  greater  extent.  This  idea  ad- 
mits not  of  precise  demonstration,  because  there  is  no  rule  by 
which  we  can  measure  the  momentum  of  civil  power,  necessary 
to  the  government  of  any  given  number  of  individuals  ;  but  when 
we  consider  that  the  island  of  Britain,  nearly  commensurate  with 
each  of  the  supposed  confederacies,  contains  about  eight  millions 
of  people,  and  when  we  reflect  upon  the  degree  of  authority  re- 
quired to  direct  the  passions  of  so  large  a  society  to  the  public 
good,  we  shall  see  no  reason  to  doubt,  that  the  like  portion  of 
power  would  be  sufficient  to  perform  the  same  task  in  a  society 
far  more  numerous.  Civil  power,  properly  organized  and  exert- 
ed, is  capable  of  diffusing  its  force  to  a  very  great  extent ;  and 
can,  in  a  manner,  reproduce  itself  in  every  part  of  a  great  em- 
pire, by  a  judicious  arrangement  of  subordinate  institutions. 

The  supposition,  that  each  confederacy  into  which  the  states 
would  be  likely  to  be  divided,  would  require  a  government  not  less 
comprehensive  than  the  one  proposed,  will  be  strengthened  by 
another  conjecture,  more  probable  than  that  which  presents  us 
with  three  confederacies,  as  the  alternative  to  a  general  union* 
If  we  attend  carefully  to  geographical  and  commercial  con- 
siderations, in  conjunction  with  the  habits  and  prejudices  of 
the  different  states,  we  shall  be  led  to  conclude,  that  in  case  of 
disunion,  they  will  most  naturally  league  themselves  under  two 
governments.  The  four  eastern  states,  from  all  the  causes  that 
form  the  links  of  national  sympathy  and  connexion,  may  with  cer- 
tainty be  expected  to  unite.  New  York,  situated  as  she  is,  would 
never  be  unwise  enough  to  oppose  a  feeble  and  unsupported  flank 
to  the  weight  of  that  confederacy.  There  are  obvious  reasons, 
that  would  facilitate  her  accession  to  it.  New  Jersey  is  too  small 
a  state  to  think  of  being  a  frontier,  in  opposition  to  this  still  more 
powerful  combination ;  nor  do  there  appear  to  be  any  obstacles 
to  her   admission    into    it.      Even    Pennsylvania    would    have 


64  THE  FEDERALIST. 

strong  inducements  to  join  the  northern  league.  An  active  for- 
eign commerce,  on  the  basis  of  her  own  navigation,  is  her  true 
policy,  and  coincides  with  the  opinions  and  dispositions  of  her 
citizens.  The  more  southern  states,  from  various  circumstances, 
may  not  think  themselves  much  interested  in  the  encouragement 
of  navigation.  They  may  prefer  a  system,  which  would  give  un- 
limited scope  to  all  nations,  to  be  the  carriers,  as  well  as  the  pur- 
chasers, of  their  commodities.  Pennsylvania  may  not  choose  to 
confound  her  interests  in  a  connexion  so  adverse  to  her  policy. 
As  she  must,  at  all  events,  be  a  frontier,  she  may  deem  it  most 
consistent  with  her  safety,  to  have  her  exposed  side  turned  towards 
the  weaker  power  of  the  southern,  rather  than  towards  the  strong- 
er power  of  the  northern  confederacy.  This  would  give  her  the 
fairest  chance  to  avoid  being  the  Flanders  of  America.  What- 
ever may  be  the  determination  of  Pennsylvania,  if  the  northern 
confederacy  includes  New  Jersey,  there  is  no  likelihood  of  more 
than  one  confederacy  to  the  south  of  that  state. 

Nothing  can  be  more  evident  than  that  the  Thirteen  States  will 
be  able  to  support  a  national  government,  better  than  one  half,  or 
one  third,  or  any  number  less  than  the  whole.  This  reflection 
must  have  great  weight  in  obviating  that  objection  to  the  proposed 
plan,  which  is  founded  on  the  principle  of  expense  ;  an  objection 
however,  which,  M-hen  we  come  to  take  a  nearer  view  of  it,  will 
appear  in  every  light  to  stand  on  mistaken  ground. 

If,  in  addition  to  the  consideration  of  a  plurality  of  civil  lists, 
we  take  into  view  the  number  of  persons  who  must  necessarily  be 
employed  to  guard  the  inland  communication,  between  the  differ- 
ent confederacies,  against  illicit  trade,  and  who  in  time  will 
infallibly  spring  up  out  of  the  necessities  of  revenue  ;  and  if  we 
also  take  into  view  the  military  establishments,  which  it  has  been 
shown  would  unavoidably  result  from  the  jealousies  and  conflicts 
of  the  several  nations,  into  which  the  states  would  be  divided,  we 
shall  clearly  discover  that  a  separation  would  be  not  less  injurious 
to  the  economy,  than  to  the  tranquillity,  commerce,  revenue,  and 
liberty,  of  every  part.  PUBLIUS. 


\  NO.  XIV. 

^  By  JAMES  MADISON. 

An  Objection  Drawn  from  the  Extent  of  Country  Answered. 

We  have  seen  the  necessity  of  the  union,  as  our  bulwark  against 
foreign  danger ;  as  the  conservator  of  peace  among  ourselves  ;  as 
the  guardian  of  our  commerce,  and  other  commou  interests ;  as 


THE  FEDERALIST.  65 

the  only  substitute  for  those  military  establishments  which  have 
subverted  the  liberties  of  the  old  world  ;  and  as  the  proper  anti- 
dote for  the  diseases  of  faction,  which  have  proved  fatal  to  other 
popular  governments,  and  of  which  alarming  symptoms  have  been 
betrayed  by  our  own.  All  that  remains,  within  this  branch  of  our 
inquiries,  is  to  take  notice  of  an  objection,  that  may  be  drawn 
from  the  great  extent  of  country  which  the  union  embraces.  A 
few  observations,  on  this  subject,  will  be  the  more  proper,  as  it  is 
perceived,  that  the  adversaries  of  the  new  constitution  are  availing 
themselves  of  a  prevailing  prejudice,  with  regard  to  the  practica- 
ble sphere  of  republican  administration,  in  order  to  supply,  by 
imaginary  difficulties,  the  want  of  those  solid  objections,  which 
they  endeavour  in  vain  to  find. 

The  errour  which  limits  republican  government  to  a  narrow  dis- 
trict, has  been  unfolded  and  refuted  in  preceding  papers.  I  re- 
mark here  only,  that  it  seems  to  owe  its  rise  and  prevalence  chiefly 
to  the  confounding  of  a  republic  with  a  democracy ;  and  apply- 
ing to  the  former,  reasonings  drawn  from  the  nature  of  the  latter. 
The  true  distinction  between  these  forms,  was  also  adverted  to  on 
a  former  occasion.  It  is,  that  in  a  democracy,  the  people  meet 
and  exercise  the  government  in  person  :  in  a  republic,  they  assem- 
ble and  administer  it  by  their  representatives  and  agents.  A  de- 
mocracy, consequently,  must  be  confined  to  a  small  spot.  A  re- 
public may  be  extended  over  a  large  region. 

To  this  accidental  source  of  the  errour,  may  be  added  the  ar- 
tifice of  some  celebrated  authors,  whose  writings  have  had  a 
great  share  in  forming  the  modern  standard  of  political  opinions. 
Being  subjects,  either  of  an  absolute,  or  limited  monarchy,  they 
have  endeavoured  to  heighten  the  advantages,  or  palliate  the  evils, 
of  those  forms,  by  placing  in  comparison  with  them  the  vices  and 
defects  of  the  republican,  and  by  citing,  as  specimens  of  the  lat- 
ter, the  turbulent  democracies  of  ancient  Greece,  and  modern 
Italy.  Under  the  confusion  of  names,  it  has  been  an  easy  task 
to  transfer  to  a  republic  observations  applicable  to  a  democ- 
racy only ;  and,  among  others,  the  observation,  that  it  can  never 
be  established  but  among  a  small  number  of  people,  living  within 
a  small  compass  of  territory. 

Such  a  fallacy  may  have  been  the  less  perceived,  as  most  of 
the  popular  governments  of  antiquity  were  of  the  democratic  spe- 
cies ;  and  even  in  modern  Europe,  to  which  we  owe  the  great 
principle  of  representation,  no  example  is  seen  of  a  government 
wholly  popular,  and  founded,  at  the  same  time,  wholly  on  that  prin- 
ciple. If  Europe  has  the  merit  of  discovering  this  great  me- 
7 


66  THE  FEDERALIST. 

chanical  power  in  government,  by  the  simple  agency  of  Avhicb, 
the  will  of  the  largest  political  body  may  be  concentered,  and  its 
force  directed  to  any  object,  which  the  public  good  requires; 
America  can  claim  the  merit  of  making  the  discovery  the  basis  of 
unmixed  and  extensive  republics.  It  is  only  to  be  lamented,  that 
any  of  her  citizens  should  wish  to  deprive  her  of  the  additional 
merit  of  displaying  its  full  efficacy  in  the  establishment  of  the 
comprehensive  system  now  under  her  consideration. 

As  the  natural  limit  of  a  democracy  is  that  distance  from  the 
centeral  point,  which  will  just  permit  the  most  remote  citizens  to 
assemble  as  often  as  their  public  functions  demand,  and  will 
include  no  greater  number  than  can  join  in  those  functions : 
so  the  natural  limit  of  a  republic,  is  that  distance  from  the  centre, 
Avhich  will  barely  allow  the  representatives  of  the  people  to  meet 
as  often  as  may  be  necessary  for  the  administration  of  public 
affairs.  Can  it  be  said,  that  the  limits  of  the  United  States  ex- 
ceed this  distance  1  It  will  not  be  said  by  those  who  recollect, 
that  the  Atlantic  coast  is  the  longest  side  of  the  union ;  that 
during  the  term  of  thirteen  years,  the  representatives  of  the  states 
have  been  almost  continually  assembled  ;  and  that  the  members, 
from  the  most  distant  states,  are  not  chargeable  with  greater  in- 
termissions of  attendance,  than  those  from  the  states  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  Congress. 

That  we  may  foi-m  a  juster  estimate  with  regard  to  this  interest- 
ing subject,  let  us  resort  to  the  actual  dimensions  of  the  union. 
The  limits,  as  fixed  by  the  treaty  of  peace,  are,  on  the  east  the 
Atlantic,  on  the  south  the  latitude  of  thirty-one  degrees,  on  the 
west  the  Mississippi,  and  on  the  north  an  irregular  line  running 
in  some  instances  beyond  the  forty-fifth  degree,  in  others  falling 
as  low  as  the  forty-second.  The  southern  shore  of  lake  Erie  lies 
below  that  latitude.  Computing  the  distance  between  the  thirty- 
first  and  forty-fifth  degrees,  it  amounts  to  nine  hundred  and  seven- 
ty-three common  miles;  computing  it  from  thirty-one  to  forty- 
two  degrees,  to  seven  hundred  sixty-four  miles  and  a  half.  Tak-  ' 
ing  the  mean  for  the  distance,  the  amount  will  be  eight  hundred 
sixty-eight  miles  and  three  fourths.  The  mean  distance  from  the 
Atlantic  to  the  Mississippi,  does  not  probably  exceed  seven  hun- 
dred and  fifty  miles.  On  a  comparison  of  this  extent,  with  that 
of  several  countries  in  Europe,  the  practicability  of  rendering 
our  system  commensurate  to  it,  appears  to  be  demonstrable. 
It  is  not  a  great  deal  larger  than  Germany,  where  a  diet,  repre- 
senting the  whole  empire,  is  continually  assembled ;  or  than 
Poland  before  the  late   dismemberment,  Avhere  another  national 


THE  FEDERALISM.  G7 

diet  was  the  depository  of  the  supreme  power.  Passing  by  France 
and  Spain,  we  find  that  in  Great  Britain,  inferiour  as  it  may  be  in 
size,  the  representatives  of  the  northern  extremity  of  the  island, 
have  as  far  to  travel  to  tlie  national  council,  as  will  be  required  of 
those  of  the  most  remote  parts  of  the  union. 

Favourable  as  this  view  of  the  subject  may  be,  some  observa- 
tions remain,  which  will  place  it  in  a  light  still  more  satisfactory. 

In  the  first  place,  it  is  to  be  remembered,  that  the  general  gov- 
ernment is  not  to  be  charged  with  the  whole  power  of  making  and 
administering  laws  ;  its  jurisdiction  is  limited  to  certain  enumerat- 
ed objects,  which  concern  all  the  members  of  the  republic,  but 
which  are  not  to  be  attained  by  the  separate  provisions  of  any. 
The  subordinate  governments,  which  can  extend  their  care  to  all 
those  other  objects,  which  can  be  separately  provided  for,  will  re- 
tain their  due  authority  and  activity.  Were  it  proposed  by  the 
plan  of  the  convention,  to  abolish  the  governments  of  the  particu- 
lar states,  its  adversaries  would  have  some  ground  for  their  objec- 
tion ;  though  it  would  not  be  difficult  to  show,  that  if  they  were 
abolished,  the  general  government  Avould  be  compelled,  by  the 
principle  of  self-preservation,  to  reinstate  them  in  their  proper 
jurisdiction. 

A  second  observation  to  be  made  is,  that  the  immediate  object 
of  the  federal  constitution,  is  to  secure  the  union  of  the  thirteen 
primitive  states,  which  we  know  to  be  practicable ;  and  to  add  to 
them  such  other  states,  as  may  arise  in  their  own  bosoms,  or  in 
their  neighbourhoods,  which  we  cannot  doubt  to  be  equally  prac- 
ticable. The  arrangements  that  may  be  necessary  for  those  an- 
gles and  fractions  of  our  territory,  which  lie  on  our  north  western 
frontier,  must  be  left  to  those  whom  further  discoveries  and  expe- 
rience will  render  more  equal  to  the  task. 

Let  it  be  remarked,  in  the  third  place,  that  the  intercourse 
throughout  the  union  will  be  daily  facilitated  by  new  improve- 
ments. Roads  will  everywhere  be  shortened,  and  kept  in  better 
order  ;  accommodations  for  travellers  will  be  multiplied  and  me- 
liorated ;  an  interiour  navigation  on  our  eastern  side,  Avill  be  open- 
ed throughout,  or  nearly  throughout,  the  whole  extent  of  the  Thir- 
teen States.  The  communication  between  the  western  and  At- 
lantic districts,  and  between  different  parts  of  each,  will  be  ren- 
dered more  and  more  easy,  by  those  numerous  canals,  with  which 
the  beneficience  of  nature  has  intersected  our  country,  and  which 
art  finds  it  so  little  difficult  to  connect  and  complete. 

A  fourth,  and  still  more  important  consideration,  is,  that  as 
almost  every  state  will,  on  one  side  or  other,  be  a  frontier,  and 


68^  THE  FEDERALIST. 

will  thus  find,  in  a  regard  to  its  safety,  an  inducement  to  make 
some  sacrifices  for  the  sake  of  the  general  protection  :  so  the  states 
which  lie  at  the  greatest  distance  from  the  heart  of  the  union,  and 
which  of  course  may  partake  least  of  the  ordinary  circulation  of 
its  benefits,  will  be  at  the  same  time  immediately  contiguous  to 
foreign  nations,  and  will  consequently  stand,  on  particular  occa- 
sions, in  greatest  need  of  its  strength  and  resources.  It  may  be 
inconvenient  for  Georgia,  or  the  states  forming  our  western  or 
north  eastern  borders,  to  send  their  representatives  to  the  seat  of 
government ;  but  they  would  find  it  more  so  to  struggle  alone 
against  an  invading  enemy,  or  even  to  support  alone  the  whole  ex- 
pense of  those  precautions,  which  may  be  dictated  by  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  continual  danger.  If  they  should  derive  less  benefit 
therefore  from  the  union  in  some  respects,  than  the  less  distant 
states,  they  will  derive  greater  benefit  from  it  in  other  respects, 
and  thus  the   proper  equilibrium  will  be  maintained  throughout. 

I  submit  to  you,  my  fellow-citizens,  these  considerations,  in  full 
confidence  that  the  good  sense  which  has  so  often  marked  your 
decisions,  will  allow  them  their  due  weight  and  eflect ;  and  that  you 
will  never  suffer  diflflculties,  however  formidable  in  appearance,  or 
however  fashionable  the  errour  on  which  they  may  be  founded,  to 
drive  you  into  the  gloomy  and  perilous  scenes  into  which  the  advo- 
cates for  disunion  would  conduct  you.  Hearken  not  to  the  unnat- 
ural voice,  which  tells  you  that  the  people  of  America,  knit  togeth- 
er as  they  are  by  so  many  chords  of  affection,  can  no  longer  live 
together  as  members  of  the  same  family;  can  no  longer  continue 
the  mutual  guardians  of  their  mutual  happiness  ;  can  no  longer  be 
fellow-citizens  of  one  great,  respectable,  and  flourishing  empire. 
Hearken  not  to  the  voice,  which  petulantly  tells  you,  that  the  form 
of  government  recommended  for  your  adoption,  is  a  novelty  in 
the  political  world  ;  that  it  has  never  yet  had  a  place  in  the  theo- 
ries of  the  wildest  projectors  ;  that  it  rashly  attempts  what  it  is 
impossible  to  accomplish.  No,  my  countrymen,  shut  your  ears 
against  this  unhallowed  language.  Shut  your  hearts  against  the 
poison  which  it  conveys.  The  kindred  blood  which  flows  in  the 
veins  of  American  citizens,  the  mingled  blood  which  they  have 
shed  in  defence  of  their  sacred  rights,  consecrate  their  union,  and 
excite  horrour  at  the  idea  of  their  becoming  aliens,  rivals,  ene- 
mies. And  if  novelties  are  to  be  shunned,  believe  me,  the  most 
alarming  of  all  novelties,  the  most  wild  of  all  projects,  the  most 
rash  of  all  attempts,  is  that  of  rending  us  in  pieces,  in  order  to 
preserve  our  liberties,  and  promote  our  happiness.  But  why  is  the 
experiment  of  an  extended  republic  to  be  rejected,  merely  because 


THE  FEDERALIST.  69 

it  may  comprise  what  is  new  7  Is  it  not  the  glory  of  the  people 
of  America,  that  whilst  they  have  paid  a  decent  regard  to  the 
opinions  of  former  times  and  other  nations,  they  have  not  sutlered 
a  blind  veneration  for  antiquity,  for  custom,  or  for  names,  to  over- 
rule the  suggestions  of  their  own  good  sense,  the  knowledo-e  of 
their  own  situation,  and  the  lessons  of  their  own  experience  1  To 
this  manly  spirit,  posterity  will  be  indebted  for  the  possession,  and 
the  world  for  the  example,  of  the  numerous  innovations  displayed 
on  the  American  theatre,  in  favour  of  private  rights  and  public 
happiness.  Had  no  important  step  been  taken  by  the  leaders  of 
the  revolution,  for  which  a  precedent  could  not  be  discovered ;  no 
government  established  of  which  an  exact  model  did  not  present 
itself,  the  peojtle  of  the  United  States  might,  at  this  moment,  have 
been  numbered  among  the  melancholy  victims  of  misguided  coun- 
cils ;  must  at  best  have  been  labouring  under  the  weight  of  some 
of  those  forms  which  have  crushed  the  liberties  of  the  rest  of  man- 
kind. Happily  for  America,  happily,  we  trust,  for  the  whole  human 
race,  they  pursued  a  new  and  more  noble  course.  They  accom- 
plished a  revolution  which  has  no  parallel  in  the  annals  of  human 
society.  They  reared  the  fabrics  of  governments  which  have  no 
model  on  the  face  of  the  globe.  They  formed  the  design  of  a 
great  confederacy,  which  it  is  incumbent  on  their  successors  to 
improve  and  perpetuate.  If  their  works  betray  imperfections,  we 
wonder  at  the  fewness  of  them.  If  they  erred  most  in  the  struc- 
ture of  the  union,  this  was  the  work  most  difficult  to  be  executed  ; 
this  is  the  work  which  has  been  new  modelled  by  the  act  of  your 
convention,  and  it  is  that  act  on  which  you  are  now  to  deliberate 
and  to  decide.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XV. 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

Concerning  the  Defects  of  the  Present  Confederation,  in  Relation  to 
the  Principle  of  Legislation  for  the  States  in  their  Collective  Ca- 
pacities. 

In  the  course  of  the  preceding  papers,  I  have  endeavoured,  my 
fellow-citizens,  to  place  before  you,  in  a  clear  and  convincing 
light,  the  importance  of  union  to  your  political  safety  and  happi- 
ness. I  have  unfolded  to  you  a  complication  of  dangers  to  which 
you  would  be  exposed,  should  you  permit  that  sacred  knot,  which 
binds  the  people  of  America  together,  to  be  severed  or  dissolved 


7(r  THE  FEDERALIST. 

by  ambition  or  by  avarice,  by  jealousy  or  by  misrepresentation. 
In  the  sequel  of  the  inquiry,  through  which  I  propose  to  accom- 
pany you,  the  truths  intended  to  be  inculcated  will  receive  further 
confirmation  from  facts  and  arguments  hitherto  unnoticed.  If  the 
road,  over  which  you  will  still  have  to  pass,  should  in  some  places 
appear  to  you  tedious  or  irksome,  you  will  recollect  that  you  are  in 
quest  of  infoi-mation  on  a  subject  the  most  momentous,  which  can 
engage  the  attentien  of  a  free  people  ;  that  the  field  through  which 
you  have  to  travel  is  in  itself  spacious,  and  that  the  diflSculties  of 
the  journey  have  been  unnecessarily  increased  by  the  mazes  with 
which  sophistry  has  beset  the  way.  It  will  be  my  aim  to  remove 
the  obstacles  to  your  progress,  in  as  compendious  a  manner  as  it 
can  be  done,  without  sacrificing  utility  to  despatch. 

In  pursuance  of  the  plan,  which  I  have  laid  down  for  the  dis- 
cussion of  the  subject,  the  point  next  in  order  to  be  examined,  is 
the  "  insufficiency  of  the  present  confederation  to  the  preservation 
of  the  union." 

It  may  perhaps  be  asked,  what  need  there  is  of  reasoning  or 
proof  to  illustrate  a  position,  which  is  neither  controverted  nor 
doubted  ;  to  which  the  understandings  and  feelings  of  all  classes 
of  men  assent ;  and  which  in  substance  is  admitted  by  the  oppo- 
nents as  well  as  by  the  friends  of  the  new  constitution  ?  It  must 
in  truth  be  acknowledged,  that  however  these  may  differ  in  other 
respects,  they  in  general  appear  to  harmonize  in  the  opinion,  that 
there  are  material  imperfections  in  our  national  system,  and  that 
something  is  necessary  to  be  done  to  rescue  us  from  impending 
anarchy.  The  facts  that  support  this  opinion,  are  no  longer  ob- 
jects of  speculation.  They  have  forced  themselves  upon  the  sen- 
sibihty  of  the  people  at  large,  and  have  at  length  extorted  from 
those,  whose  mistaken  policy  has  had  the  principal  share  in  pre- 
cipitating the  extremity  at  which  we  are  arrived,  a  reluctant  con- 
fession of  the  reality  of  many  of  those  defects  in  the  scheme  of 
our  federal  government,  whi(;h  have  been  long  pointed  out  and 
regretted  by  the  intelligent  friends  of  the  union. 

We  may  indeed,  with  propriety,  be  said  to  have  reached  almost 
the  last  stage  of  national  humiliation.  There  is  scarcely  any 
thing  that  can  wound  the  pride,  or  degrade  the  character,  of  an 
independent  people,  which  we  do  not  experience.  Are  there  en- 
gagements, to  the  performance  of  which  we  are  held  by  every  tie 
respectable  among  men  1  These  are  the  subjects  of  constant  and 
unblushing  violation.  Do  we  owe  debts  to  foreigners,  and  to  our 
own  citizens,  contracted  in  a  time  of  imminent  peril,  for  the  pres- 
ervation of  our  political  existence  ?      These  remain  without  any 


* ,  THE  FEDERALIST.  71 

proper  or  satisfactory  provision  for  their  discharge.      Have  we 
valuable  territories  and  important  posts  in  the  possession  of  a  for- 
eign power,  which,  by  express  stipulations,   ought  long  since  to 
have  been  surrendered  1     These  are  stili  retained,  to  the  prejudice 
of  our  interests  not  less  than  of  our  rights.      Are   we  in  a  condi- 
tion to  resent  or  to  repel  the  aggression  ?     "NVe  have  neither  troops, 
nor  treasury,  nor  government.*     Are  we  even  in  a  condition  to  re- 
monstrate with  dignity  1     The  just  imputations  on  our  own   faith, 
in  respect  to  the  same  treaty,  ought  first  to  be  removed.     Are   we 
entitled,  by  nature  and  compact,  to  a  free  participation  in  the  nav- 
igation of  the  Mississippi  1     Spain  excludes  us  from  it.     Is  public 
credit  an  indispensable  resource  in  time  of  public   danger  ?     We 
seem  to  have  abandoned  its  cause  as   desperate  and  irretrievable. 
Is  commerce  of  importance  to  national  wealth  ?     Ours  is   at  the 
lowest  point  of  declension.     Is  respectability  in  the   eyes  of   for- 
ein  powers,  a  safeguard  against  foreign  encroachments  T     The  im- 
becility of  our  government   even   forbids  them   to  treat  with  us  : 
our  ambassadors  abroad  are   the  mere    pageants  of   mimic  sove- 
reignty.    Is  a  violent  and  unnatural  decrease  in  the  value  of  land, 
a  symptom  of  national  distress  1     The  price  of  improved  land,  in 
most  parts  of  the  country,  is  much  lower  than  can  be   accounted 
for  by  the    quantity  of  waste   land   at  market,   and   can   oidy   be 
fully  explained  by   that  want  of    private   and   public  confidence, 
which  are  so  alarmingly  prevalent  among  all   ranks,   and  which 
have  a  direct  tendency  to  depreciate  property  of  every  kind.      Is 
private  credit  the  friend  and  patron  of  industry  ?     That  most  use- 
ful kind  which  relates  to  borrowing  and  lending,  is  reduced  within 
the  narrowest  limits  and  this  still  more  from  an  opinion  of  insecu- 
rity than  from  a  scarcity  of  money.     To  shorten  an  enumeration 
of  particulars  which  can  aftbrd  neither  pleasure  nor  instruction,  it 
may  in  general  be  demanded,  what  indication  is  there  of  national 
disorder,  poverty,  and  insignificance,  that  could  befal  a  communi- 
ty so  peculiarly  blessed  with  natural  advantages  as  we   are,  which 
does  not  form  a  part  of  the  dark  catalogue  of  our  public  misfor- 
tunes 1 

This  is  the  melancholy  situation  to  which  we  have  been  brought 
by  those  very  maxims  and  counsels,  which  would  now  deter  us 
from  adopting  the  proposed  constitution  ;  and  which,  not  content 
with  having  conducted  us  to  the  brink  of  a  precipice,  seem  resolved 
to  plunge  us  into  the  abyss  that  awaits  us  below\  Here,  my  coun- 
trymen, impelled  by  every  motive  that  ought  to  influence  an  en- 
lightened people,  let  us  make  a  firm  stand  for  our  safety,  our  tran- 

*  I  mean  for  the  union. 


72  THE  FEDERALIST. 

quillity,  our  dignity,  our  reputation.  Let  us  at  last  break  the  fatal 
charm  which  has  too  long  seduced  us  from  the  paths  of  felicity 
and  prosperity. 

It  is  true,  as  has  been  before  observed,  that  facts  too  stubborn 
to  be  resisted,  have  produced  a  species  of  general  assent  to  the 
abstract  proposition,  that  there  exist  material  defects  in  our  nation- 
al system  ;  but  the  usefulness  of  the  concession,  on  the  part  of 
the  old  adversaries  of  federal  measures,  is  destroyed  by  a  strenu- 
ous opposition  to  a  remedy,  upon  the  only  principles  that  can  give 
it  a  chance  of  success.  While  they  admit  that  the  government 
of  the  United  States  is  destitute  of  energy,  they  contend  against 
conferring  upon  it  those  powers  which  are  requisite  to  supply  that 
energy.  They  seem  still  to  aim  at  things  repugnant  and  irrecon- 
cilable ;  at  an  augmentation  of  federal  authority,  without  a  dim- 
inution of  state  authority  ;  at  sovereignty  in  the  union,  and  com- 
plete independence  in  the  members.  They  still,  in  fine,  ?eem  to 
cherish  with  blind  devotion  the  political  monster  of  an  imperium  in 
imperio.  This  renders  a  full  display  of  the  principal  defects  of  the 
confederation  necessary,  in  order  to  show,  that  the  evils  we  expe- 
rience do  not  proceed  from  minute  or  partial  imperfections,  but 
from  fundamental  errours  in  the  structure  of  the  building,  which 
cannot  be  amended,  otherwise  than  by  an  alteration  in  the  very 
elements  and  main  pillars  of  the  fabric. 

The  great  and  radical  vice,  in  the  construction  of  the  existing 
confederation,  is  in  the  principle  of  legislation  for  states  or 
GOVERNMENTS,  in  their  corporate  or  collective  capacities,  and 
as  contradistinguished  from  the  individuals  of  whom  they  consist- 
Though  this  principle  does  not  run  through  all  the  powers  delegat- 
ed to  the  union  ;  yet  it  pervades  and  governs  those  on  which  the 
efficacy  of  the  rest  depends  :  except,  as  to  the  rule  of  apportion- 
ment, the  United  States  have  an  indefinite  discretion  to  make 
requisitions  for  men  and  money  ;  but  they  have  no  authority  to 
raise  either,  by  regulations  extending  to  the  individual  citizens  of 
America.  The  consequence  of  this  is,  that,  though  in  theory, 
their  resolutions  concerning  those  objects  are  laws,  constitutionally 
binding  on  the  members  of  the  union ;  yet  in  practice,  they  are 
mere  recommendations,  which  the  states  observe  or  disregard 
at  their  option. 

It  is  a  singular  instance  of  the  capriciousness  of  the  human 
mind,  that  after  all  the  admonitions  we  have  had  from  experience 
on  this  head,  there  should  still  be  found  men,  who  object  to  the 
new  constitution,  for  deviating  from  a  principle  which  has  been 
found  the  bane  of  the  old ;  and  which  is,  in  itself,  evidently  in- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  VS 

compatible  with  the  idea  of  a  government  ;  a  principle,  in  short, 
which,  if  it  is  to  be  executed  at  all,  must  substitute  the  violent 
and  sanguinary  agency  of  the  sword,  to  the  mild  influence  of  the 
magistracy. 

There  is  nothing  absurd  or  impracticable,  in  the  idea  of  a 
league  or  alliance  between  independent  nations,  for  certain  defin- 
ed purposes  precisely  stated  in  a  treaty  ;  regulating  all  the  details 
of  time,  place,  circumstance,  and  quantity;  leaving  nothing  to 
future  discretion  ;  and  depending  for  its  execution  on  the  good 
faith  of  the  parties.  Compacts  of  this  kind  exist  among  all  civil- 
ized nations,  subject  to  the  usual  vicissitudes  of  peace  and  war  ; 
of  observance  and  non-observance,  as  the  interests  or  passions  of 
the  contracting  powers  dictate.  In  the  early  part  of  the  present 
icentury,  there  was  an  epidemical  rage  in  Europe  for  this  species 
of  compacts  ;  from  which  the  politicians  of  the  times  fondly  hoped 
for  benefits  which  were  never  realized.  With  a  view  to  establish- 
ing the  equilibrium  of  power,  and  the  peace  of  that  part  of  the 
world,  all  the  resources  of  negotiation  were  exhausted,  and  triple 
and  quadruple  alliances  were  formed  ;  but  they  were  scarcely  form- 
ed before  they  were  broken,  giving  an  instructive,  but  afflicting 
lesson  to  mankind,  how  little  dependence  is  to  be  placed  on  trea- 
ties which  have  no  other  sanction  than  the  obligations  of  good 
faith ;  and  which  oppose  general  considerations  of  peace  and 
justice,  to  the  impulse  of  any  immediate  interest  or  passion. 

If  the  particular  states  in  this  country  are  disposed  to  stand  in 
a  similar  relation  to  each  other,  and  to  drop  the  project  of  a  gen- 
eral DISCRETIONARY  SUPERINTENDENCE,    the    SchcmC    WOuld    iudccd 

be  pernicious,  and  would  entail  upon  us  all  the  mischiefs  which 
have  been  enumerated  under  the  first  head  ;  but  it  would  have 
the  merit  of  being,  at  least,  consistent  and  practicable.  Aban- 
doning all  views  towards  a  confederate  government,  this  would 
bring  us  to  a  simple  alliance,  oflTensive  and  defensive  ;  and  would 
place  us  in  a  situation  to  be  alternately  friends  and  enemies  of 
each  other,  as  our  mutual  jealousies  and  rivalships,  nourished  by 
the  intrigues  of  foreign  nations,  should  prescribe  to  us. 

But  if  we  are  unwilling  to  be  placed  in  this  perilous  situation  ; 
if  we  still  adhere  to  the  design  of  a  national  government,  or, 
which  is  the  same  thing,  of  a  superintending  power,  under  the  di- 
rection of  a  common  council,  we  must  resolve  to  incorporate  into 
our  plan  those  ingredients,  which  may  be  considered  as  forming 
the  characteristic  difference  between  a  league  and  a  government ; 
we  must  extend  the  authority  of  the  union  to  the  persons  of  the 
citizens....the  only  proper  objects  of  government. 
8 


74  THE  FEDERALIST. 

Government  in)plies  the  power  of  making  laws.  It  is  essential 
to  the  idea  of  a  law,  that  it  be  attended  with  a  sanction  ;  or,  in 
other  words,  a  penalty  or  punishment  for  disobedience.  If  there 
be  no  penalty  annexed  to  disobedience,  the  resolutions  or  com- 
mands which  pretend  to  be  laws,  will  in  fact  amount  to  nothing 
more  than  advice  or  recommendation.  This  penalty,  whatever  it 
may  be,  can  only  be  inflicted  in  two  ways;  by  the  agency  of  the 
courts  and  ministers  of  justice,  or  by  military  force;  by  the  coer- 
cion of  the  magistracy,  or  by  the  coercion  of  arms.  The  first 
kind  can  evidently  apply  only  to  men  :  the  last  kind  must  of  ne- 
cessity be  employed  against  bodies  politic,  or  communities,  or 
states.  It  is  evident,  that  there  is  no  process  of  a  court  by  which 
their  observance  of  the  laws  can,  in  the  last  resort,  be  enforced. 
Sentences  may  be  denounced  against  them  for  violations  of  their 
duty  ;  but  these  sentences  can  only  be  carried  into  execution  by  the 
sword.  In  an  association,  where  the  general  authority  is  confined 
to  the  collective  bodies  of  the  communities  that  compose  it,  every 
breach  of  the  laws  must  involve  a  state  of  war,  and  military  ex- 
ecution must  become  the  only  instrument  of  civil  obedience. 
Such  a  state  of  things  can  certainly  not  deserve  the  name  of  gov- 
ernment, nor  would  any  prudent  man  choose  to  commit  his  hap- 
piness to  it. 

There  was  a  time  when  we  were  told  that  breaches,  by  the 
states,  of  the  regulations  of  the  federal  authority,  were  not  to  be 
expected  ;  that  a  sense  of  common  interest  would  preside  over 
the  conduct  of  the  respective  members,  and  would  beget  a  full 
compliance  with  all  the  constitutional  requisitions  of  the  union. 
This  language,  at  the  present  day,  would  appear  as  wild  as  a 
great  part  of  what  we  now  hear  from  the  same  quarter  will  be 
thought,  when  we  shall  have  received  further  lessons  from  that 
best  oracle  of  wisdom,  experience.  It  at  all  times  betrayed  an 
ignorance  of  the  true  spr'ings  by  which  human  conduct  is  actuat- 
ed, and  belied  the  original  inducements  to  the  establishment  of 
civil  power.  Why  has  government  been  instituted  at  all  1  Be- 
cause the  passions  of  men  will  not  conform  to  the  dictates  of  rea- 
son and  justice,  without  constraint.  Has  it  been  found  that  bodies 
of  men  act  with  more  rectitude  or  greater  disinterestedness  than 
individuals  1  The  contrary  of  this  has  been  inferred  by  all  accu- 
rate observers  of  the  conduct  of  mankind  ;  and  the  inference  is 
founded  upon  obvious  reasons.  Regard  to  reputation  has  a  less 
active  influence,  when  the  infamy  of  a  bad  action  is  to  be  divided 
among  a  number,  than  when  it  is  to  fall  singly  upon  one.  A 
spirit  of  faction,  which  is  apt  to  mingle  its  poison  in  the  delibera- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  75 

tions  of  all  bodies  of  men,  will  often  hurry  the  persons,  of  whom 
they  are  composed,  into  improprieties  and  excesses,  for  which 
they  would  blush  in  a  private  capacity. 

In  addition  to  all  this,  there  is,  in  the  nature  of  sovereign  pow- 
er, an  impatience  of  contiol,  which  disposes  those  who  are  invest- 
ed with  the  exercise  of  it,  to  look  with  an  evil  eye  upon  all  exter- 
nal attempts  to  restrain  or  direct  its  operations.  From  this  spirit 
it  happens,  that  in  every  political  association  which  is  formed  upon 
the  principle  of  unitin&lt;^  in  a  common  interest  a  number  of  lesser 
sovereignties,  there  will  be  found  a  kind  of  eccentric  tendency  in 
the  subordinate  or  inferiour  orbs,  by  tlie  operation  of  which  there 
wiil  be  a  perpetual  effort  in  each  to  fly  oft"  from  the  common  cen- 
tre. This  tendency  is  not  diflicult  to  be  accounted  for.  It  has  its 
origin  in  the  love  of  power.  Power,  controlled  or  abridged,  is 
almost  always  the  rival  and  enemy  of  that  power  by  which  it  is 
controlled  or  abridged.  This  simple  proposition  will  teach  us,  how 
little  reason  there  is  to  expect,  that  the  persons  entrusted  with  the 
administration  of  the  aff'airs  of  the  particular  members  of  a  con- 
federacy, will  at  all  times  be  ready,  with  perfect  good  humour, 
and  an  unbiassed  regard  to  the  public  weal,  to  execute  the  resolu- 
tions or  decrees  of  the  general  authority.  The  reverse  of  this  re- 
sults from  the  constitution  of  man. 

If,  therefore,  the  measures  of  the  confederacy  caimot  be  executed, 
without  the  intervention  of  the  particular  administrations,  there 
will  be  little  prospect  of  their  being  executed  at  all.  The  rulers 
of  the  respective  members,  whether  they  have  a  constitutional 
right  to  do  it  or  not,  will  undertake  to  judge  of  the  propriety  of 
the  measures  themselves.  They  will  consider  the  conformity  of 
the  thing  proposed  or  required  to  their  immediate  interests  or  aims ; 
the  momentary  conveniences  or  inconveniences  that  would  attend 
its  adoption.  All  this  will  be  done  ;  and  in  a  spirit  of  interested 
and  suspicious  scrutiny,  without  that  knowledge  of  national  cir- 
cumstances and  reasons  of  state,  which  is  essential  to  a  right 
judgment,  and  with  that  strong  predilection  in  favour  of  local  ob- 
jects, which  can  hardly  fail  to  mislead  the  decision.  The  same 
process  must  be  repeated  in  every  member  of  which  the  body  is 
constituted  ;  and  the  execution  of  the  plans,  framed  by  the  coun- 
cils of  the  whole,  will  always  fluctuate  on  the  discretion  of  the  ill- 
informed  and  prejudiced  opinion  of  every  part.  Those  who  have 
been  conversant  in  the  proceedings  of  popular  assemblies ;  who 
have  seen  how  difficult  it  often  is,  when  there  is  no  exteriour  pres- 
sure of  circumstances,  to  bring  them  to  harmonious  resolutions  on 
important  points,  will  readily  conceive,  how  impossible  it  must  be 


76  THE  FEDERALIST. 

to  induce  a  number  of  such  assemblies,  deliberating  at  a  distance 
from  each  other,  at  different  times,  and  under  different  impressions, 
loner  to  cooperate  in  the  same  views  and  pursuits. 

Jn  our  case,  the  concurrence  of  thirteen  distinct  severeign  wills 
is  requisite  under  the  confederation,  to  the  complete  execution  of 
every  important  measure,  that  proceeds  from  the  union.  It  has 
happened,  as  was  to  have  been  foreseen.  The  measures  of  the 
union  have  not  been  executed  ;  the  delinquencies  of  the  states 
have,  step  by  step,  matured  themselves  to  an  extreme,  which  has 
at  length  arrested  all  the  wheels  of  the  national  government,  and 
brought  them  to  an  awful  stand.  Congress  at  this  time  scarcely 
possess  the  means  of  keeping  up  the  forms  of  administration,  till 
the  states  can  have  time  to  agree  upon  a  more  substantial  substi- 
tute for  the  present  shadow  of  a  federal  government.  Things  did 
not  come  to  this  desperate  extremity  at  once.  The  causes  which 
have  been  specified,  produced  at  first  only  unequal  and  dispropor- 
tionate degrees  of  compliance  with  the  requisitions  of  the  union. 
The  greater  deficiencies  of  some  states  furnished  the  pretext  of 
example,  and  the  temptation  of  interest  to  the  complying,  or  at 
least  delinquent  states.  Why  should  we  do  more  in  proportion 
than  those  who  are  embarked  with  us  in  the  same  political  voyage  1 
Why  should  we  consent  to  bear  more  than  our  proper  share  of  the 
common  burthen  1  These  were  suggestions  which  human  selfish- 
ness could  not  withstand,  and  which  even  speculative  men,  who 
looked  forward  to  remote  consequences,  could  not  without  hesita- 
tion combat.  Each  state,  yielding  to  the  persuasive  voice  of  im- 
mediate interest  or  convenience,  has  successively  withdrawn  its 
support,  till  the  frail  and  tottering  edifice  seems  ready  to  fall  upon 
our  heads,  and  to  crush  us  beneath  its  ruins.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XVI. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON.       ♦ 

The  same  Subject  Continued,  in  Relation  to  the  same  Principles. 

The  tendency  of  the  principle  of  legislation  for  states  or  com- 
munities in  their  political  capacities,  as  it  has  been  exemplified  by 
the  experiment  we  have  made  of  it,  is  equally  attested  by  the 
events  which  have  befallen  all  other  governments  of  the  confeder- 
ate kind,  of  which  we  have  any  account,  in  exact  proportion  to 
its  prevalence  in  those  systems.  The  confirmations  of  this  fact 
will  be  worthy  of  a  distinct  and  particular  examination.  I  shall 
content  myself  with  barely  observing  here,  that  of  all  the  confed- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  W 

eracies  of  antiquity  which  history  has  handed  down  to  us,  the 
Lycian  and  Achaean  leagues,  as  far  as  there  remain  vestiges  of 
them,  appear  to  have  been  most  free  from  the  fetters  of  that  mis- 
taken principle,  and  were  accordingly  those  which  have  best  de- 
served, and  have  most  liberally  received,  the  applauding  suffrages 
of  political  writers. 

This  exceptionable  principle  may,  as  truly  as  emphatically,  be 
styled  the  parent  of  anarchy  :  it  has  been  seen,  that  delinquencies 
in  the  members  of  the  union  are  its  natural  and  necessary  off- 
spring ;  and  that  whenever  they  happen,  the  only  constitutional 
remedy  is  force,  and  the  immediate  effect  of  the  use  of  it,  civil 
war. 

It  remains  to  inquire,  how  far  so  odious  an  engine  of  govern- 
ment, in  its  application  to  us,  would  even  be  capable  of  answering 
its  end.  If  there  should  not  be  a  large  army,  constantly  at  the 
disposal  of  the  national  government,  it  would  either  not  be  able 
to  employ  force  at  all,  or  when  this  could  be  done,  it  would  amount 
to  a  war  between  different  parts  of  the  confederacy,  concerning 
the  infractions  of  a  league ;  in  which  the  strongest  combination 
would  be  most  likely  to  prevail,  whether  it  consisted  of  those  who 
supported,  or  of  those  who  resisted,  the  general  authority.  It 
would  rarely  happen  that  the  delinquency  to  be  redressed  would 
be  confined  to  a  single  member  ;  and  if  there  were  more  than 
one,  who  had  neglected  their  duty,  similarity  of  situation  would 
induce  them  to  unite  for  common  defence.  Independent  of  this 
motive  of  sympathy,  if  a  lai-ge  and  influential  state  should  happen 
to  be  the  aggressing  member,  it  would  commonly  have  weight 
enough  with  its  neighbours,  to  win  over  some  of  them  as  associ- 
ates to  its  cause.  Specious  arguments  of  danger  to  the  general 
liberty  could  easily  be  contrived  ;  plausible  excuses  for  the  defi- 
ciencies of  the  party  could,  without  difficulty,  be  invented,  to 
alarm  the  apprehensions,  inflame  the  passions,  and  conciliate  the 
good-will,  even  of  those  states  which  were  not  chargeable  with 
any  violation  or  omission  of  duty.  This  would  be  the  more  likely 
to  take  place,  as  the  delinquencies  of  the  larger  members  might 
be  expected  sometimes  to  proceed  from  an  ambitious  premedita- 
tion in  their  rulers,  with  a  view  to  getting  rid  of  all  external  con- 
trol upon  their  designs  of  personal  aggrandizement ;  the  better  to 
effect  which,  it  is  presumable  they  would  tamper  beforehand  with 
leading  individuals  in  the  adjacent  states.  If  associates  could  not 
be  found  at  home,  recourse  would  be  had  to  the  aid  of  foreign 
powers,  who  would  seldom  be  disinclined  to  encouraging  the  dis- 
sensions of  a  confederacy,  from  the  firm  union  of  which  they  had 


78  THE  FEDERALIST. 

so  much  to  fear.  When  the  sword  is  once  drawn,  the  passions  of 
men  observe  no  bounds  of  moderation.  The  suggestions  of  wound- 
ed pride,  the  instigations  of  irritated  resentment,  would  be  apt  to 
carry  the  states,  against  which  the  arms  of  the  union  were  exert- 
ed, to  any  extremes  necessary  to  avenge  the  affront,  or  to  avoid 
the  disgrace  of  submission.  The  first  war  of  this  kind  would 
pi'obably  terminate  in  a  dissolution  of  the  union. 

This  may  be  considered  as  the  violent  death  of  the  confederacy. 
Its  more  natural  death  is  what  we  now  seem  to  be  on  the  point  of 
experiencing,  if  the  federal  system  be  not  speedily  renovated  in 
a  more  substantial  form.  It  is  not  probable,  considering  the 
genius  of  this  country,  that  the  complying  states  would  often 
be  inclined  to  support  the  authority  of  the  union,  by  engaging  in 
a  war  against  the  noncomplying  states.  They  would  always  be 
more  ready  to  pursue  the  milder  course  of  putting  themselves  upon 
an  equal  footing  with  the  delinquent  members,  by  an  imitation  of 
their  example.  And  the  guilt  of  all  would  thus  become  the  secu- 
rity of  all.  Our  past  experience  has  exhibited  the  operation  of 
this  spirit  in  its  full  light.  There  would  in  fact  be  an  insuperable 
difficulty  in  ascertaining,  when  force  could  with  propriety  be  em- 
ployed. In  the  article  of  pecuniary  contribution,  which  would  be 
the  most  usual  source  of  delinquency,  it  would  often  be  impossible 
to  decide,  whether  it  had  proceeded  from  disinclination,  or  inabili- 
ty. The  pretence  of  the  latter  woidd  always  be  at  hand.  And 
the  case  must  be  very  flagrant,  in  which  its  fallacy  could  be  de- 
tected with  suthcient  certainty  to  justify  the  harsh  expedient  of 
compulsion.  It  is  easy  to  see  that  this  problem  alone,  as  often  as  it 
should  occur,  would  open  a  wide  field  to  the  majority  that  hap- 
pened to  prevail  in  the  national  council,  for  the  exercise  of  fac- 
tious views,  of  partiality,  and  of  oppression. 

It  seems  to  require  no  pains  to  prove  that  the  states  ought  not 
to  prefer  a  national  constitution,  which  could  only  be  kept  in  mo- 
tion by  the  instrumentality  of  a  large  army,  continually  on  foot  to 
execute  the  ordinary  requisitions  or  decrees  of  the  government. 
And  yet  this  is  the  jjlain  alternative  involved  by  those  Avho  wish  to 
deny  it  the  power  of  extending  its  operations  to  individuals.  Such 
a  scheme,  if  practicable  at  all,  would  instantly  degenerate  into  a 
military  despotism  ;  but  it  will  be  found  in  every  light  impractica- 
ble. The  resources  of  the  union  would  not  be  equal  to  the  main- 
tenance of  an  army  considerable  enough  to  confine  the  larger 
states  within  the  limits  of  their  duty;  nor  would  the  means  ever 
be  furnished  of  forming  such  an  army  in  the  first  instance.  Who- 
ever coiisiders  the  populousness  and  strength  of  several  of  these 


THE  FEDERALIST.  n 

states  singly  at  the  present  juncture,  and  looks  forward  to  what 
they  will  become,  even  at  the  distance  of  half  a  century,  will  at 
once  dismiss  as  idle  and  visionary  any  scheme,  which  aims  at  reg- 
ulating their  movements  by  laws,  to  operate  upon  them  in  their 
collective  capacities,  and  to  be  executed  by  a  coercion  applicable 
to  them  in  the  same  capacities.  A  project  of  this  kind  is  little 
less  romantic  than  the  monster-taming  spirit,  attributed  to  the  fab- 
ulous heroes  and  demigods  of  antiquity. 

Even  in  those  confederacies,  which  have  been  composed  of 
members  smaller  than  many  of  our  counties,  the  principle  of  le"-- 
islation  for  sovereign  states,  supported  by  military  coercion,  has 
never  been  found  effectual.  It  has  rarely  been  attempted  to  be 
employed,  but  against  the  weaker  members  ;  and  in  most  instan- 
ces attempts  to  coerce  the  refractory  and  disobedient,  have  been 
the  signals  of  bloody  wars  ;  in  which  one  half  of  the  confederacy 
has  displayed  its  banners  against  the  other. 

The  resuh  of  these  observations  to  an  intelligent  mind  must  be 
clearly  this,  that  if  it  be  possible  at  any  rate  to  construct  a  federal 
government  capable  of  regulating  the  common  concerns,  the  pre- 
serving the  general  tranquillity,  it  must  be  founded,  as  to  the  ob- 
jects committed  to  its  care,  upon  the  reverse  of  the  principle  con- 
tended for  by  the  opponents  of  the  proposed  constitution.  It  must 
carry  its  agency  to  the  persons  of  the  citizens.  It  must  stand  in 
need  of  no  intermediate  legislations:  but  must  itself  be  empower- 
ed to  employ  the  arm  of  the  ordinary  magistrate  to  execute  its 
own  resolutions.  The  majesty  of  the  national  authority  must  be 
manifested  through  the  medium  of  the  courts  of  justice.  The  gov- 
ernment of  the  union  like  that  of  each  state,  must  be  able  to  ad- 
dress itself  immediately  to  the  hopes  and  fears  of  individuals ; 
and  to  attract  to  its  support  those  passions,  which  have  the  strong- 
est influence  upon  the  human  heart.  It  must,  in  short,  possess  all 
the  means,  and  have  a  right  to  resort  to  all  the  methods,  of  exe- 
cuting the  powers  with  which  it  is  entrusted,  that  are  possessed 
and  exercised  by  the  governments  of  the  particular  states. 

To  this  reasoning  it  may  perhaps  be  objected,  that  if  any  state 
should  be  disaffected  to  the  authority  of  the  union,  it  could  at  any 
time  obstruct  the  execution  of  its  laws,  and  bring  the  matter  to 
the  same  issue  of  force,  with  the  necessity  of  which  the  opposite 
scheme  is  reproached. 

The  plausibility  of  this  objection  will  vanish  the  moment  we  ad- 
vert to  the  essential  difference  between  a  mere  non-compliance 
and  a  direct  and  active  resistance.  If  the  interposition  of  the 
state  legislatures  be  necessary  to  give  effect  to  a  measure  of  the 


80  THE  FEDERALIST. 

union,  they  have  only  not  to  act,  or  to  act  evasively,  and  the 
measure  is  defeated.  This  neglect  of  duty  may  be  disguised 
under  aftected  but  unsubstantial  provisions  so  as  not  to  appear, 
and  of  course  not  to  excite  any  alarm  in  the  people  for  the  safety 
of  the  constitution.  The  state  leaders  may  even  make  a  merit  of 
their  surreptitious  invasions  of  it,  on  the  ground  of  some  tempora- 
ry convenience,  exemption,  or  advantage. 

But  if  the  execution  of  the  laws  of  the  national  government 
should  not  require  the  intervention  of  the  state  legislatures;  if 
they  were  to  pass  into  immediate  operation  upon  the  citizens  them- 
selves, the  particular  governments  could  not  interrupt  their  pro- 
gress without  an  open  and  violent  exertion  of  an  unconstitutional 
power.  No  omission,  nor  evasions,  would  answer  the  end.  They 
would  be  obliged  to  act,  and  in  such  a  manner,  as  would  leave  no 
doubt  that  they  had  encroached  on  the  national  rights.  An  ex- 
periment of  this  nature  would  always  be  hazardous  in  the  face  of 
a  constitution  in  any  degree  competent  to  its  own  defence,  and  of 
a  people  enlightened  enough  to  distinguish  between  a  legal  exer- 
cise and  an  illegal  usurpation  of  authority.  The  success  of  it 
would  require  not  merely  a  factious  majority  in  the  legislature, 
but  the  concurrence  of  the  courts  of  justice,  and  of  the  body  of 
the  people.  If  the  judges  were  not  embarked  in  a  conspiracy 
with  the  legislature,  they  would  pronounce  the  resolutions  of 
such  a  majority  to  be  contrary  to  the  supreme  law  of  the  land, 
unconstitutional  and  void.  If  the  people  were  not  tainted  with 
the  spirit  of  their  state  representatives,  they,  as  the  natural  guar- 
dians of  the  constitution,  would  throw  their  weight  into  the  na- 
tional scale,  and  give  it  a  decided  preponderancy  in  the  contest. 
Attempts  of  this  kind  would  not  often  be  made  with  levity  or  rash- 
ness ;  because  they  could  seldom  be  made  without  danger  to  the 
author-s ;  unless  in  cases  of  tyrannical  exercise  of  the  federal  au- 
thority. 

If  opposition  to  the  national  government  should  arise  from  the 
disorderly  conduct  of  refractory,  or  seditious  individuals,  it  could 
be  overcome  by  the  same  means  which  are  daily  employed  against 
the  same  evil,  under  the  state  governments.  The  magistracy, 
being  equally  the  ministers  of  the  law  of  the  land,  from  whatever 
source  it  might  emanate,  would,  doubtless,  be  as  ready  to  guard 
the  national  as  the  local  regulations,  from  the  inroads  of  private 
licentiousness.  As  to  those  partial  commotions  and  insurrections, 
which  sometimes  disquiet  society,  from  the  intrigues  of  an  incon- 
siderable faction,  or  from  sudden  or  occasional  ill  humours,  that 
do  not  infect  the  great  body  of  the  community,  the  general  gov- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  81 

ternment  could  command  more  extensive  resources,  for  the  sup- 
pression of  disturbances  of  that  kind,  than  would  be  in  the  power 
of  any  single  member.  And  as  to  those  mortal  feuds,  which,  in 
certain  conjunctures,  spread  a  conflagration  through  a  whole  na- 
tion, or  through  a  very  large  proportion  of  it,  proceeding  either 
from  weighty  causes  of  discontent,  given  by  the  government,  or 
from  the  contagion  of  some  violent  popular  paroxysm,  they  do 
not  fall  within  any  ordinary  rules  of  calculation.  When  they  hap- 
pen, they  commonly  amount  to  revolutions,  and  dismemberments 
of  empire.  No  form  of  government  can  always  either  avoid  or 
control  them.  It  is  iu  vain  to  hope  to  guard  against  events  too 
mighty  for  human  foresight  or  precaution  ;  and  it  would  be  idle  to 
object  to  a  government,  because  it  eould  not  perform  impossibil- 
ities. PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XVII. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  Subject  Continued,  and  Illustrated  by  Examples,  to  Show  the 
Tendency  of  Federal  Governments,  rather  to  Anarchy  among  the 
Members,  than  Tyranny  in  the  Head. 

An  objection,  of  a  nature  different  from  that  which  has  been 
stated  and  answered  in  my  last  address,  may  perhaps  be  urged 
against  the  principle  of  legislation  for  the  individual  citizens  of 
America.  It  may  be  said,  that  it  would  tend  to  render  the  gov- 
ernment of  the  union  too  powerful,  and  to  enable  it  to  absorb 
those  residuary  authorities,  which  it  might  be  judged  proper  to 
leave  with  the  states  for  local  purposes.  Allowing  the  utmost 
latitude  to  the  love  of  power,  which  any  reasonable  man  can  re- 
quire, I  confess  I  am  at  a  loss  to  discover  what  temptation  the  per- 
sons entrusted  with  the  administration  of  the  general  government, 
could  ever  feel  to  divest  the  states  of  the  authorities  of  that  de- 
scription. The  regulation  of  the  mere  domestic  police  of  a  state, 
appears  to  me  to  hold  out  slender  allurements  to  ambition.  Com- 
merce, finance,  negotiation,  and  war,  seem  to  comprehend  all  the 
objects  which  have  charms  for  minds  governed  by  that  passion ; 
and  all  the  powers  necessary  to  those  objects,  ought,  in  the  first 
instance,  to  be  lodged  in  the  national  depository.  The  adminis- 
tration of  private  justice  between  the  citizens  of  the  same  state; 
the  supervision  of  agriculture,  and  of  other  concerns  of  a  simi- 
lar nature  ;  all  those  things,  in  short,  which  are  proper  to  be  pro- 
vided for  by  local  legislation,  can  never  be  desirable  cares  of  a 
9 


89  THE  FEDERALIST. 

general  jurisdiction.  It  is  therefore  improbable,  that  there  should 
exist  a  disposition  in  the  federal  councils,  to  usurp  the  powers  with 
which  they  are  connected  ;  because  the  attempt  to  exercise  them, 
would  be  as  troublesome  as  it  would  be  nugatory  ;  and  the  pos- 
session of  them,  for  that  reason,  would  contribute  nothing  to  the 
dignity,  to  the  importance,  or  to  the  splendour,  of  the  national 
government. 

But  let  it  be  admitted,  for  argument  sake,  that  mere  wanton- 
ness, and  lust  of  domination,  would  be  sufficient  to  beget  that  dis- 
position ;  still  it  may  be  safely  affirmed,  that  the  sense  of  the  con- 
stituent body  of  the  national  representatives,  or,  in  other  words, 
of  the  people  of  the  several  states,  would  control  the  indulgence 
of  so  extravagant  an  appetite.  It  will  always  be  far  more  easy 
for  the  state  governments  to  encroach  upon  the  national  authorities, 
than  for  the  national  government  to  encroach  upon  the  state  au- 
thorities. The  proof  of  this  proposition  turns  upon  the  greater 
degree  of  influence  which  the  state  governments,  if  they  adminis- 
ter their  affairs  with  uprightness  and  prudence,  will  generally  pos- 
sess over  the  people;  a  circumstance  which  at  the  same  time 
teaches  us,  that  there  is  an  inherent  and  intrinsic  weakness  in  all 
federal  constitutions;  and  that  too  much  pains  cannot  be  taken  in 
their  organization,  to  give  them  all  the  force  which  is  compatible 
with  the  principles  of  liberty. 

The  superiority  of  influence  in  favour  of  the  particular  govern- 
ments, would  result  partly  from  the  diffusive  construction  of  the 
national  government ;  but  chiefly  from  the  nature  of  the  objects 
to  which  the  attention  of  the  state  administrations  would  be  di- 
rected. 

It  is  a  known  fact  in  human  nature,  that  its  affections  are  com- 
monly weak  in  proportion  to  the  distance  or  diffusiveness  of  the 
object.  Upon  the  same  principle  that  a  man  is  more  attached  to 
his  family  than  to  his  neighbourhood,  to  his  neighbourhood  than 
to  the  community  at  large,  the  people  of  each  state  would  be  apt 
to  feel  a  stronger  bias  towards  their  local  governments,  than  to- 
wards the  government  of  the  union,  unless  the  force  of  that  princi- 
ple should  be  destroyed  by  a  much  better  administration  of  the 
latter. 

This  strong  propensity  of  the  human  heart,  would  find  power- 
ful auxiliaries  in  the  objects  of  state  regulation. 

The  variety  of  more  minute  interests,  which  will  necessarily 
fall  under  the  superintendence  of  the  local  administrations,  and 
which  will  form  so  many  rivulets  of  influence,  running  through 
every  part  of  the  society,  cannot  be  particularized,  without  involv- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  83 

ing  a  detail  too  tedious  and  uninteresting  to  compensate  for  the 
instruction  it  might  afford. 

There  is  one  transcendent  advantage  belonging  to  the  province 
of  state  governments,  which  alone  suffices  to  place  the  matter  in 
a  clear  and  satisfactory  Hght....I  mean  the  ordinary  administration 
of  criminal  and  civil  justice.  This,  of  all  others,  is  the  most  pow- 
erful, most  universal,  and  most  attractive  source  of  popular  obedi- 
ence and  attachment.  It  is  this,  which,  being  the  immediate  and 
visible  guardian  of  Hfe  and  property  ;  having  its  benefits  and  its 
terrours  in  constant  activity  before  the  pubHc  eye  ;  regulating  all 
those  personal  interests,  and  familiar  concerns,  to  which  the  sen- 
sibility of  individuals  is  more  immediately  awake ;  contributes, 
more  than  any  other  circumstance,  to  impress  upon  the  minds  of 
the  people  affection,  esteem,  and  reverence  towards  the  govern- 
ment. This  great  cement  of  society,  which  will  diffuse  itself  al- 
most wholly  through  the  channels  of  the  particular  governments, 
independent  of  all  other  causes  of  influence,  would  ensure  them 
so  decided  an  empire  over  their  respective  citizens,  as  to  render 
them  at  all  times  a  complete  counterpoise,  and  not  unfrequently 
dangerous  rivals  to  the  power  of  the  union. 

The  operations  of  the  national  government,  on  the  other  hand, 
falling  less  immediately  under  the  observation  of  the  mass  of  the 
citizens,  the  benefits  derived  from  it  will  chiefly  be  perceived,  and 
attended  to  by  speculative  men.  Relating  to  more  general  inter- 
ests, they  will  be  less  apt  to  come  home  to  the  feelings  of  the  peo- 
ple ;  and,  in  proportion,  less  likely  to  inspire  a  habitual  sense  of 
obligation,  and  an  active  sentiment  of  attachment. 

The  reasoning  on  this  head  has  been  abundantly  exemplified  by 
the  experience  of  all  federal  constitutions,  with  which  we  are  ac- 
quainted, and  of  all  others  which  have  borne  the  least  analogy  to 
them. 

Though  the  ancient  feudal  systems  were  not,  strictly  speaking, 
confederacies,  yet  they  partook  of  the  nature  of  that  species  of 
association.  There  was  a  common  head,  chieftain,  or  sovereign, 
whose  authority  extended  over  the  whole  nation  ;  and  a  number 
of  subordinate  vassals,  or  feudatories,  who  had  large  portions  of 
land  allotted  to  them,  and  numerous  trains  of  infcriour  vassals  or 
retainers,  who  occupied  and  cultivated  that  land  upon  the  tenure 
of  fealty,  or  obedience  to  the  persons  of  whom  they  held  it.  Each 
principal  vassal  was  a  kind  of  sovereign  within  his  particular  de- 
mesnes. The  consequences  of  this  situation  were  a  continual  op- 
position to  the  authority  of  the  sovereign,  and  frequent  wars  be- 
tween the  great  barons,  or  chief  feudatories  themflelves.      The 


84  THE  FEDERALIST. 

power  of  the  head  of  the  nation  was  commonly  too  weak,  either 
to  preserve  the  puhlic  peace,  or  to  protect  the  people  against  the 
oppressions  of  their  immediate  lords.  This  period  of  European 
affairs  is  emphatically  styled  by  historians,  the  times  of  feudal  an- 
archy. 

When  the  sovereign  happened  to  be  a  man  of  vigorous  and 
warlike  temper  and  of  superiour  abilities,  he  would  acquire  a  per- 
sonal weight  and  influence,  which  answered  for  the  time  the  pur- 
poses of  a  more  regular  authority.  But  in  general,  the  power  of 
the  barons  triumphed  over  that  of  the  prince ;  and  in  many  in- 
stances his  dominion  was  entirely  thrown  off,  and  the  great  fiefs 
were  erected  into  independent  principalities  or  states.  In  those 
instances  in  which  the  monarch  finally  prevailed  over  his  vassals, 
his  success  was  chiefly  owing  to  the  tyranny  of  those  vassals  over 
their  dependents.  The  barons,  or  nobles,  equally  the  enemies  of 
the  sovereign  and  the  oppressors  of  the  common  people,  were 
dreaded  and  detested  by  both  ;  till  mutual  danger  and  mutual  in- 
terest effected  an  union  between  them  fatal  to  the  power  of  the 
aristocracy.  Had  the  nobles,  by  a  conduct  of  clemency  and  jus- 
tice, preserved  the  fidelity  and  devotion  of  their  retainers  and  fol- 
lowers, the  contests  between  them  and  the  prince  must  almost 
always  have  ended  in  their  favour,  and  in  the  abridgment  or  sub- 
version of  the  royal  authority. 

This  is  not  an  assertion  founded  merely  in  speculation  or  con- 
jecture. Among  other  illustrations  of  its  truth  which  might  be 
cited,  Scotland  will  furnish  a  cogent  example.  The  spirit  of  clan- 
ship which  was  at  an  early  day  introduced  into  that  kingdom^ 
uniting  the  nobles  and  their  dependants  by  ties  equivalent  to  those 
of  kindred,  rendered  the  aristocracy  a  constant  overmatch  for  the 
power  of  the  monarch,  till  the  incorporation  with  England  sub- 
dued its  fierce  and  ungovernable  spirit,  and  reduced  it  within  those 
rules  of  subordination,  which  a  more  rational  and  a  more  ener- 
getic system  of  civil  polity  had  previously  established  in  the  latter 
kingdom. 

The  separate  governments  in  a  confederacy  may  aptly  be  com- 
pared with  the  feudal  baronies  ;  with  this  advantage  in  their  fa- 
vour, that  from  the  reasons  already  explained,  they  will  generally 
possess  the  confidence  and  good-will  of  the  people  ;  and  with  so 
important  a  support,  will  be  able  efiectually  to  oppose  all  encroach- 
ments of  the  national  government.  It  will  be  well,  if  they  are  not 
able  to  counteract  its  legitimate  and  necessary  authority.  The 
points  of  similitude  consist  in  the  rivalship  of  power,  applicable  to 
both,  and  in  the  concentration  of  large  portions  of  the  strength 


THE  FEDERALIST.  SS 

of  the  community  into  particular  depositories,  ia  one  case  at  the 
disposal  of  individuals,  in  the  other  case  at  the  disposal  of  politi- 
cal bodies. 

A  concise  review  of  the  events  that  have  attended  confederate 
governments,  will  further  illustrate  tl)is  important  doctrine  ;  an 
inattention  to  which  has  been  the  great  source  of  our  political 
mistakes,  and  has  given  our  jealousy  a  direction  to  the  wrong  side. 
This  review  shall  form  the  subject  of  some  ensuing  papers. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XVIII.* 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 

The  Subject  Continued,  with  Further  Examples. 

Among  the  confederacies  of  antiquity,  the  most  considerable 
was  that  of  the  Grecian  republics,  associated  under  the  Amphyc- 
tionic  council.  From  the  best  accounts  transmitted  of  this  cele- 
brated institution,  it  bore  a  very  instructive  analogy  to  the  present 
confederation  of  the  American  states. 

The  members  retained  the  character  of  independent  and  sove- 
reign states,  and  had  equal  votes  in  the  federal  council.  This 
council  had  a  general  authority  to  propose  and  resolve  whatever 
it  judged  necessary  for  the  common  welfare  of  Greece  ;  to  declare 
and  carry  on  war  ;  to  decide,  in  the  last  resort,  all  controversies 
between  the  members ;  to  fine  the  aggressing  party ;  to  employ 
the  whole  force  of  the  confederacy  against  the  disobedient;  to 
admit  new  members.  The  Amphyctions  were  the  guardians  of 
religion,  and  the  immense  riches  belonging  to  the  temple  of  Del- 
phos,  where  they  had  the  right  of  jurisdiction  in  controversies  be- 
tween the  inhabitants  and  those  who  came  to  consult  the  oracle. 
As  a  further  provision  for  the  efficacy  of  the  federal  powers,  they 
took  an  oath  mutually  to  defend  and  protect  the  united  cities,  to 
punish  the  violators  of  this  oath,  and  to  inflict  vengeance  on  sac- 
rilegious despoilers  of  the  temple. 

*  The  subject  of  this  and  (he  two  following  numbers  happened  to  be  taken  up  by  both 
Mr.  H.  and  Mr.  IM.  What  had  been  prepared  by  Mr.  H.  who  had  entered  more  briefly 
into  the  subject,  was  left  with  Mr.  M.  on  its  appearing  that  the  latter  was  engaged  in  it, 
with  larger  materials,  and  with  a  view  to  a  more  precise  delineation;  and  from  the  pen  of 
the  latter,  the  several  papers  went  to  the  press. 

[The  above  note  from  the  pen  of  Mr.  Madison  was  written  on  the  margin  of  the  leaf, 
commencing  with  the  present  number,  in  the  copy  of  ilie  Federalist  loaned  by  him  to  the 
publisher.] 


86  THE  FEDERALIST. 

In  theory,  and  upon  paper,  this  apparatus  of  powers  seems 
amply  sufficient  for  all  general  purposes.  In  several  material  in- 
stances, thej  exceed  the  powers  enumerated  in  the  articles  of  con- 
federation. The  Arnphyctions  had  in  their  hands  the  supersti- 
tion of  the  times,  one  of  the  principal  engines  by  which  govern- 
ment was  then  maintained  ;  they  had  a  declared  authority  to  use 
coercion  against  refractory  cities,  and  where  bound  by  oath  to  ex- 
ert this  authority  on  the  necessary  occasions. 

Very  different,  nevertheless,  was  the  experiment  from  the  theory. 
The  powers,  like  those  of  the  present  congress,  were  administered 
by  deputies  appointed  wholly  by  the  cities  in  their  political  capaci- 
ties;  and  exercised  over  them  in  the  same  capacities.  Hence  the 
weakness,  the  disorders,  and  finally  the  destruction  of  the  confed- 
eracy. The  more  powerful  members,  instead  of  being  kept  in 
awe  and  subordination,  tyrannized  successively  over  all  the  rest. 
Athens,  as  we  learn  from  Demosthenes,  was  the  arbiter  of  Greece 
seventy-three  years.  The  Lacedfemonians  next  governed  it  twenty- 
nine  years.  At  a  subsequent  period,  after  the  battle  of  Leuctra, 
the  Thebans  had  their  turn  of  domination. 

It  happened  but  too  often,  according  to  Plutarch,  that  the  depu- 
ties of  the  strongest  cities,  awed  and  corrupted  those  of  the  weak- 
er;  and  that  judgment  went  in  favour  of  the  most  powerful  party. 

Even  in  the  midst  of  defensive  and  dangerous  wars  with  Persia 
and  Macedon,  the  members  never  acted  in  concert,  and  were, 
more  or  fewer  of  them,  eternally  the  dupes,  or  the  hirelings  of  the 
common  enemy.  The  intervals  of  foreign  war,  were  filled  up  by 
domestic  vicissitudes,  convulsions,  and  carnage. 

After  the  conclusion  of  the  war  with  Xerxes,  it  appears  that  the 
Lacedaemonians  required  that  a  number  of  the  cities  should  be 
turned  out  of  the  confederacy  for  the  unfaithful  part  they  had  act- 
ed. The  Athenians,  finding  that  the  Lacedaemonians  would  lose 
fewer  partisans  by  such  a  measure  than  themselves,  and  would  be- 
come masters  of  the  public  deliberations,  vigorously  opposed  and 
defeated  the  attempt.  This  piece  of  history  proves  at  once  the 
inefficacy  of  the  union  ;  the  ambition  and  jealousy  of  its  most  pow- 
erful members ;  and  the  dependent  and  degraded  condition  of  the 
rest.  The  smaller  members,  though  entitled  by  the  theory  of  their 
system,  to  revolve  in  equal  pride  and  majesty  around  the  common 
centre,  had  become  in  fact  satellites  of  the  orbs  of  primary  mag- 
nitude. 

Had  the  Greeks,  says  the  abbe  Milot,  been  as  wise  as  they  were 
courageous,  they  would  have  been  admonished  by  experience  of 
the  necessity  of  a  closer  union,  and  would  have  availed  themselves 


THE  FEDERALIST.  87 

of  the  peace  which  followed  their  success  against  the  Persian 
arms  to  establish  such  a  reformation.  Instead  of  this  obvious 
policy,  Athens  and  Sparta,  inflated  with  the  victories  and  the  glo- 
ry they  had  acquired,  became  first  rivals,  and  then  enemies ;  and 
did  each  other  infinitely  more  mischief  than  they  had  suffered 
from  Xerxes.  Their  mutual  jealousies,  fears,  hatreds,  and  inju- 
ries ended  in  the  celebrated  Peloponnesian  war  ;  which  itself  end- 
ed in  the  ruin  and  slavery  of  the  Athenians,  who  had  begun  it. 

As  a  weak  government,  when  not  at  war,  is  ever  agitated  by  in- 
ternal dissensions ;  so  these  never  fail  to  bring  on  fresh  calamities 
from  abroad.  The  Phocians  having  ploughed  up  some  consecrat- 
ed ground  belonging  to  the  temple  of  Apollo,  the  Amphyctionic 
council,  according  to  the  superstition  of  the  age,  imposed  a  fine 
on  the  sacrilegious  offenders.  The  Phocians,  being  abetted  by 
Athens  and  Sparta,  refused  to  submit  to  the  decree.  The  The- 
bans,  with  others  of  the  cities,  undertook  to  maintain  the  author- 
ity of  the  Amphyctions,  and  to  avenge  the  violated  god.  The  lat- 
ter, being  the  weaker  party,  invited  the  assistance  of  Philip  of 
Macedon,  who  had  secretly  fostered  the  contest.  Philip  gladly 
seized  the  opportunity  of  executing  the  designs  he  had  long  plan- 
ned against  the  liberties  of  Greece.  By  his  intrigues  and  bribes, 
he  won  over  to  his  interests  the  popular  leaders  of  several  cities; 
by  their  influence  and  votes,  gained  admission  into  the  Amphycti- 
onic council ;  and,  by  his  arts  and  his  arms,  made  himself  master 
of  the  confederacy. 

Such  were  the  consequences  of  the  fallacious  principle,  on  which 
this  interesting  establishment  was  founded.  Had  Greece,  says  a 
judicious  observer  on  her  fate,  been  united  by  a  stricter  confeder- 
ation, and  persevered  in  her  union,  she  would  never  have  worn 
the  chains  of  Macedon ;  and  might  have  proved  a  barrier  to  the 
vast  projects  of  Rome. 

The  Achaean  league,  as  it  is  called,  was  another  society  of  Gre- 
cian republics,  which  supplies  us  with  valuable  instruction. 

The  union  here  was  far  more  intimate,  and  its  organization 
much  wiser,  than  in  the  preceding  instance.  It  will  accordingly 
appear,  that  though  not  exempt  from  a  similar  catastrophe,  it  by 
no  means  equally  deserved  it. 

The  cities  composing  this  league  retained  their  municipal  juris- 
diction, appointed  their  own  officers,  and  enjoyed  a  perfect  equal- 
ity. The  senate  in  which  they  were  represented,  had  the  sole  and 
exclusive  right  of  peace  and  war  ;  of  sending  and  receiving  am- 
bassadors ;  of  entering  into  treaties  and  alliances  ;  of  appointing 
a  chief  magistrate  or  prsetor,  as  he  was   called  ;  who  commanded 


88  THE  FEDERALIST. 

their  armies  ;  and  who,  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  ten  of  the 
senators,  not  only  administered  the  government  in  the  recess  of 
the  senate,  but  had  a  great  share  in  its  dehberation,  when  assem- 
bled. According  to  the  primitive  constitution,  there  were  two 
prsetors  associated  in  the  administration  ;  but  on  trial  a  single  one 
was  preferred. 

It  appears  that  the  cities  had  all  the  same  laws  and  customs,  the 
same  weights  and  measures,  and  the  same  money.  But  how  far 
this  effect  proceeded  from  the  authority  of  the  federal  council,  is 
left  in  uncertainty.  It  is  said  only,  that  the  cities  were  in  a  man- 
ner compelled  to  receive  the  same  laws  and  usages.  When  Lace- 
da^mon  was  brought  into  the  league  by  Philopoemen,  it  was  attend- 
ed with  an  abolition  of  the  institutions  and  laws  of  Lycurgus,  and 
an  adoption  of  those  of  the  Achseans.  The  Amphyctionic  confed- 
eracy, of  which  she  had  been  a  member,  left  her  in  the  full  exer- 
cise of  her  government  and  her  legislation.  This  circumstance 
alone  proves  a  very  material  difference  in  the  genius  of  the  two 
systems. 

It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  such  imperfect  monuments  re- 
main of  this  curious  political  fabric.  Could  its  interiour  structure 
and  regular  operation  be  ascertained,  it  is  probable  that  more  light 
would  be  thrown  by  it  on  the  science  of  federal  government,  than 
by  any  of  the  like  experiments  with  which  we  are  acquainted. 

One  important  fact  seems  to  be  witnessed  by  all  the  historians 
who  take  notice  of  Achc?an  affairs.  It  is,  that  as  well  after  the 
renovation  of  the  league  by  Aratus,  as  before  its  dissolution  by  the 
arts  of  Macedon,  there  was  infinitely  more  of  moderation  and 
justice  in  the  administration  of  its  government,  and  less  of  violence 
and  sedition  in  the  people,  than  were  to  be  found  in  any  of  the 
cities  exercising  singly  all  the  prerogatives  of  sovereignty.  The 
abbe  Mably,  in  his  observations  on  Greece,  says,  that  the  popular 
government,  which  was  so  tempestuous  elsewhere,  caused  no  dis- 
orders in  the  members  of  the  Achaean  republic,  because  it  teas  there 
tempered  by  the  general  authority  and  laws  of  the  confederacy. 

We  are  not  to  conclude  too  hastily,  however,  that  faction  did 
not  in  a  certain  degree  agitate  the  particular  cities ;  much  less, 
that  a  due  subordination  and  harmony  reigned  in  the  general  sys- 
tem. The  contrary  is  sufficiently  displayed  in  the  vicissitudes  and 
fate  of  the  republic. 

Whilst  the  Amphyctionic  confederacy  remained,  that  of  the 
Achaeans,  which  comprehended  the  less  important  cities  only,  made 
little  figure  on  the  theatre  of  Greece.  When  the  former  became 
a  victim  to  Macedon,  the  latter  was  spared  by  the  policy  of  Philip 


THE  FEDERALIST.  69 

and  Alexander.    Under  the  successors  of  these  princes,  however, 
a  different  policy  prevailed.     The  arts  of  division  were  practised 
among  the  Achaeans ;  each  city  M'as  seduced  into  a  separate  in- 
terest;  the  union  was  dissolved.     Some  of  the  cities  fell  under  the 
tyranny  of  Macedonian  garrisons  :  others  under  that  of  usurpers 
springing  out  of  their  own   confusions.     Shame  and   oppression 
ere  long  awakened  their  love  of   liberty.     A   few   cities  reunited. 
Their  example  was  followed  by  others,  as  opportunities  were  found 
of  cutting  off  their  tyrants.     The  league   soon   embraced   almost 
the   whole  Peloponnesus.     Macedon  saw  its  progress;  but    was 
hindered  by  internal  dissensions  from   stopping    it.     All  Greece 
caught  the  enthusiasm,  and  seemed  ready  to  unite  in  one  confed- 
eracy, when  the  jealousy  and  envy  in   Sparta  and  Athens,   of  the 
rising  glory  of  the  Achaeans,  threw  a  fatal  damp  on  the  enterprise. 
The  dread  of  the  Macedonian  power  induced  the  league  to   court 
the  alliance  of  the  kings  of  Egypt  and  Syria  ;  who,  as  successors 
of  Alexander,  were  rivals  of  the  king  of  Macedon.     This  policy 
was  defeated  by  Cleomenes,  king  of  Sparta,  who   was  led   by  his 
ambition  to  make  an  unprovoked   attack   on  his  neighbours,    the 
Achaeans  ;  and  who,  as  an  enemy  to  Macedon,  had  interest  enough 
with  the  Egyptian  and  Syrian  princes,  to  effect  a  breach  of  their 
engagements  with  the  league.     The  Achseans  were  now  reduced 
to  the  dilemma  of  submitting  to  Cleomenes,  or  of  supplicating  the 
aid  of  Macedon,  its  former  oppressor.     The  latter  expedient  Avas 
adopted.     The  contests  of  the  Greeks  always  afforded  a  pleasing 
opportunity  to  that  powerful  neighbour,  of  intermeddling  in  their 
affairs.     A  Macedonian  army  quickly  appeared  :  Cleomenes  was 
vanquished.     The  Achaeans  soon  experienced,   as   often  happens, 
that  a  victorious  and  powerful  ally,  is  but  another  name  for  a  mas- 
ter.    All  that  their  most  abject  compliances  could  obtain  from  him, 
was  a  toleration  of  the  exercise  of  their  laws.     Philip,  who  was 
now  on  the  throne  of  Macedon,  soon  provoked,  by  his  tyrannies, 
fresh  combinations  among  the  Greeks.     The  Achaeans,  though 
weakened  by  internal  dissensions,  and  by  the  revolt  of  Messene, 
one  of  its  members,  being  joined  by  the  iEtolians  aud  Athenians, 
erected  the  standard  of  opposition.     Finding  themselves,  though 
thus  supported,  unequal  to  the  undertaking,  they  once  more  had 
recourse  to  the  dangerous  expedient  of  introducing  the  succour  of 
foreign  arms.     The  Romans,  to  whom   the  invitation   was   njade, 
eagerly  embraced  it.     Philip  was  conquered  :  Macedon  subdued. 
A  new  crisis  ensued  to  the  league.     Dissensions  broke  out  among 
its  members.      These  the   Romans  fostered.       Callicrates,   and 
other    popular  leaders,  became  mercenary  instruments  for  in- 
10 


9I&gt;  THE  FEDERALIST. 

veigling  their  countrymen.  The  more  effectually  to  nourish  dis- 
cord and  disorder,  the  Romans  had,  to  the  astonishment  of  those 
who  confided  in  their  sincerity,  already  proclaimed  universal  liber- 
ty* throughout  Greece.  With  the  same  insidious  views,  they  now 
seduced  the  members  from  the  league,  by  representing  to  their 
pride  the  violation  it  committed  on  their  sovereignty.  By  these 
arts,  this  union,  the  last  hope  of  Greece. ...the  last  hope  of  ancient 
liberty,  was  torn  into  pieces  ;  and  such  imbecility  and  distraction 
introduced,  that  the  arms  of  Rome  found  little  difficulty  in  com- 
pleting the  ruin  which  their  arts  had  commenced.  The  AchiEans 
were  cut  to  pieces  ;  and  Achaia  loaded  with  chains,  under  which 
it  is  groaning  at  this  hour. 

I  have  thought  it  not  superfluous  to  give  the  outlines  of  this 
important  portion  of  history ;  both  because  it  teaches  more  than 
one  lesson  ;  and  because,  as  a  supplement  to  the  outlines  of  the 
Achaean  constitution,  it  emphatically  illustrates  the  tendency  of 
federal  bodies,  rather  to  anarchy  among  the  members,  than  to  ty- 
ranny in  the  head.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XIX. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 

The  Subject  Continued,  with  Further  Examples. 

The  examples  of  ancient  confederacies,  cited  in  my  last  paper, 
have  not  exhausted  the  source  of  experimental  instruction  on  this 
subject.  There  are  existing  institutions,  founded  on  a  similar 
principle,  which  merit  particular  consideration.  The  first  which 
presents  itself  is  the  Germanic  body. 

In  the  early  ages  of  Christianity,  Germany  was  occupied  by 
seven  distinct  nations,  who  had  no  common  chief  The  Franks, 
one  of  the  number,  having  conquered  the  Gauls,  established  the 
kingdom  which  has  taken  its  name  from  them.  In  the  ninth  cen- 
tm*y,  Charlemagne,  its  warlike  monarch,  carried  his  victorious 
arms  in  every  direction  ;  and  Germany  became  a  part  of  his  vast 
dominions.  On  the  dismemberment,  which  took  place  under  his 
sons,  this  part  was  erected  into  a  separate  and  independent  em- 
pire. Charlemagne  and  his  immediate  descendants  possessed  the 
reality,  as  well  as  the  ensigns  and  dignity  of  imperial  power.  But 
the  principal  vassals,  whose  fiefs  had  become  hereditary,  and  who 

*  Tliis  was  but  anolber  name  more  specious  for  the  independence  of  the  members  on 
the  federal  head. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  91 

composed  the  national  diets,  which  Charlemagne  had  not  abolish- 
ed, gradually  threw  off  the  yoke,  and  advanced  to  sovereign  juris- 
diction and  independence.  The  force  of  imperial  sovereignty 
was  insufficient  to  restrain  such  powerful  dependents;  or  to  pre- 
serve the  unity  and  tranquillity  of  tlie  empire.  The  most  furious 
private  wars,  accompanied  with  every  species  of  calamity,  were 
carried  on  between  the  ditferent  princes  and  states.  The  imperi- 
bI  authority,  unable  to  maintain  the  public  order,  declined  by  de- 
grees, till  it  was  almost  extinct  in  the  anarchy,  which  agitated  the 
long  interval  between  the  death  of  the  last  emperor  of  the  Sua- 
bian,  and  the  accession  of  the  first  emperor  of  the  Austrian  lines. 
In  the  eleventh  century,  the  emperors  enjoyed  full  sovereignty: 
in  the  fifteenth,  they  had  little  more  than  the  symbols  and  decora- 
tions of  power. 

Out  of  this  feudal  system,  which  has  itself  many  of  the  impor- 
tant features  of  a  confederacy,  has  grown  the  federal  system, 
which  constitutes  the  Germanic  empire.  Its  powers  are  vested  in 
a  diet  representing  the  component  members  of  the  confederacy  ; 
in  the  emperor,  who  is  the  executive  magistrate,  with  a  negative 
on  the  decrees  of  the  diet ;  and  in  the  imperial  chamber  and  aulic 
council,  two  judiciary  tribunals  having  supreme  jurisdiction  in 
controversies  Avhich  concern  the  empire,  or  which  happen  among 
its  members. 

The  diet  possesses  the  general  power  of  legislating  for  the  em- 
pire ;  of  making  war  and  peace  ;  contracting  alliances  ;  assessing 
quotas  of  troops  and  money  ;  constructing  fortresses  ;  regulating 
coin  ;  admitting  new  members  ;  and  subjecting  disobedient  mem- 
bers to  the  ban  of  the  empire,  by  which  the  party  is  degraded  from 
his  sovereign  rights,  and  his  possessions  forfeited.  The  members 
of  the  confederacy  are  expressly  restricted  from  entering  into 
compacts,  prejudicial  to  the  empire  ;  from  imposing  tolls  and  du- 
ties on  their  mutual  intercourse,  without  the  consent  of  the  empe- 
ror and  diet;  from  altering  the  value  of  money  ;  from  doing  in- 
justice to  one  another  ;  or  from  affording  assistance  or  retreat 
to  disturbers  of  the  public  peace.  And  the  ban  is  denounced 
against  such  as  shall  violate  any  of  these  restrictions.  The  mem- 
bers of  the  diet,  as  such,  are  subject  in  all  cases  to  be  judged  by 
the  emperor  and  diet,  and  in  their  private  capacities  by  the  aulic 
council  and  imperial  chamber. 

The  prerogatives  of  the  emperor  are  numerous.  The  most  im- 
portant of  them  are,  his  exclusive  right  to  make  propositions  to 
the  diet ;  to  negative  its  resolutions  ;  to  name  ambassadors  ;  to 
confer  dignities  and  titles  ;  to  fill  vacant  electorates  ;  to  found 


9a  THE  FEDERALIST. 

universities ;  to  grant  privileges  not  injurious  to  the  states  of  the 
empire ;  to  receive  and  apply  the  public  revenues  ;  and  general- 
ly to  watch  over  the  public  safety.  In  certain  cases,  the  electors 
form  a  council  to  him.  In  quality  of  emperor,  he  possesses  no 
territory  within  the  empire  ;  nor  receives  any  revenue  for  his  sup- 
port. But  his  revenue  and  dominions,  in  other  qualities,  constitute 
him  one  of  the  most  powerful  princes  in  Europe. 

From  such  a  parade  of  constitutional  powers,  in  the  represent- 
atives and  head  of  this  confederacy,  the  natural  supposition  would 
be,  that  it  must  form  an  exception  to  the  general  character 
which  belongs  to  its  kindred  system.  Nothing  would  be  further 
from  the  reality.  The  fundamental  principle,  on  which  it  rests, 
that  the  empire  is  a  community  of  sovereigns  ;  that  the  diet  is  a 
representation  of  sovereigns ;  and  that  the  laws  are  addressed  to 
sovereigns  ;  render  the  empire  a  nerveless  body,  incapable  of  reg- 
ulating its  own  members,  insecure  against  external  dangers,  and 
agitated  with  unceasing  fermentations  in  its  own  bowels. 

The  history  of  Germany,  is  a  history  of  wars  between  the  em- 
peror and  the  princes  and  states;  of  wars  among  the  princes  and 
states  themselves ;  of  the  licentiousness  of  the  strong,  and  the  op- 
pression of  the  weak  ;  of  foreign  intrusions,  and  foreign  intrigues  ; 
of  requisitions  of  men  and  money  disregarded,  or  partially  com- 
plied with  ;  of  attempts  to  enforce  them,  altogether  abortive,  or 
attended  with  slaughter  and  desolation,  involving  the  innocent 
with  the  guilty  ;  of  general  imbecility,  confusion,  and  misery. 

In  the  sixteenth  century,  the  emperor,  with  one  part  of  the  em- 
pire on  his  side,  was  seen  engaged  against  the  other  princes  and 
states.  In  one  of  the  conflicts,  the  emperor  himself  was  put  to 
flight,  and  very  near  being  made  prisoner  by  the  elector  of  Sax- 
ony. The  late  king  of  Prussia  was  more  than  once  pitted  against 
his  imperial  sovereign  ;  and  commonly  proved  an  overmatch  for 
him.  Controversies  and  wars  among  the  members  themselves, 
have  been  so  common,  that  the  German  annals  are  crowded  with 
the  bloody  pages  which  describe  them.  Previous  to  the  peace  of 
Westphalia,  Germany  was  desolated  by  a  war  of  thirty  years,  in 
which  the  emperor,  with  one  half  of  the  empire,  was  on  one  side  ; 
and  Sweden,  with  the  other  half,  on  the  opposite  side.  Peace 
was  at  length  negotiated,  and  dictated  by  foreign  powers;  and  the 
articles  of  it,  to  which  foreign  powers  are  parties,  made  a  funda- 
mental part  of  the  Germanic  constitution. 

If  the  nation  happens,  on  any  emergency,  to  be  more  united  by 
the  necessity  of  self-defence,  its  situation  is  still  deplorable.  Mil- 
itary preparations  must  be  preceded  by  so  many  tedious  discus- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  gg 

sions,  arising  from  the  jealousies,  pride,  sepai-ate  views,  and  clash- 
ing pretensions,  of  sovereign  bodies,  that  before  the  diet  can  set- 
tle the  arrangements,  the  enemy  are  in  the  field  ;  and  before  the 
federal  troops  are  ready  to  take  it,  are  retiring  into  winter-quarters. 

The  small  body  of  national  troops,  which  has  been  jud^^ed  ne- 
cessary in  time  of  peace,  is  defectively  kept  up,  badly  paid,  in- 
fected with  local  prejudices,  and  supported  by  irregular  and  dis- 
proportionate contributions  to  the  treasury. 

The  impossibility  of  maintaining  order,  and  dispensing  justice 
among  these  sovereign  sul)jects,  produced  the  experiment  of  divid- 
ing the  empire  into  nine  or  ten  circles  or  districts ;  of  giving  them 
an  interiour  organization,  and  of  charging  them  with  the  military 
execution  of  the  laws  against  delinquent  and  contumacious  mem- 
bers. This  experiment  has  only  served  to  demonstrate  more  fully 
the  radical  vice  of  the  constitution.  Each  circle  is  the  miniature 
picture  of  the  deformities  of  this  political  monster.  They  either 
fail  to  execute  their  commissions,  or  they  do  it  with  all  the  devas- 
tation and  carnage  of  civil  war.  Sometimes  whole  circles  are  de- 
faulters ;  and  then  they  increase  the  mischief  which  they  were  in- 
stituted to  remedy. 

We  may  form  some  judgment  of  this  scheme  of  military  coer- 
cion, from  a  sample  given  by  Thuanus.  In  Donawerth,  a  free  and 
imperial  city  of  the  circle  of  Suabia,  the  abbe  de  St.  Croix  en- 
joyed certain  immunities  w  hich  had  been  reserved  to  him.  In  the 
exercise  of  these,  on  some  public  occasion,  outrages  were  com- 
mitted on  him,  by  the  people  of  the  city.  The  consequence  was, 
that  the  city  was  put  under  the  ban  of  the  empire  ;  and  the  duke 
of  Bavaria,  though  director  of  another  circle,  obtained  an  ap- 
pointment to  enforce  it.  He  soon  appeared  before  the  city,  with 
a  corps  of  ten  thousand  troops  ;  and  finding  it  a  fit  occasion,  as 
he  had  secretly  intended  from  the  beginning,  to  revive  an  anti- 
quated claim,  on  the  pretext  that  his  ancestors  had  suffered  the 
place  to  be  dismembered  from  his  territory  ;*  he  took  possession 
of  it  in  his  own  name  ;  disarmed  and  punished  the  inhabitants, 
and  reannexed  the  city  to  his  domains. 

It  may  be  asked,  perhaps,  what  has  so  long  kept  this  disjointed 
machine  from  falling  entirely  to  pieces  1  The  answer  is  obvious. 
The  weakness  of  most  of  the  members,  who  are  unwilling  to  ex- 
pose themselves  to  the  mercy  of  foreign  powers  ;  the  weakness  of 
most  of  the  principal  members,  compared  with  the  formidable 
powers  all  around  them  ;  the  vast  weight  and  influence  which  the 

*  Pseffel,  Nouvel  abreg.  chronol.  de  1'  hist.  etc.  d'  Allcmagne,  says,  tl,e  pretext  was  to 
indemnify  himself  for  the  expense  of  the  expedition. 


94  THE  FEDERALIST. 

emperor  derives  from  his  separate  and  hereditary  dominions ;  and 
the  interest  he  feels  in  preserving  a  system  with  which  his  family 
pride  is  connected,  and  which  constitutes  him  the  first  prince  in 
Europe :  these  causes  support  a  feeble  and  precarious  union  ; 
whilst  the  repellent  quality,  incident  to  the  nature  of  sovereignty, 
and  which  time  continually  strengthens,  prevents  any  reform  what- 
ever, founded  on  a  proper  consolidation.  Nor  is  it  to  he  imagined, 
if  this  obstacle  could  be  surmounted,  that  the  neighbouring  pow- 
ers would  suffer  a  revolution  to  take  place,  which  would  give  to 
the  empire  the  force  and  preeminence  to  which  it  is  entitled.  For- 
eign nations  have  long  considered  themselves  as  interested  in  the 
changes  made  by  events  in  this  constitution  ;  and  have,  on  various 
occasions,  betrayed  their  policy  of  perpetuating  its  anarchy  and 
weakness. 

If  more  direct  examples  were  wanting,  Poland,  as  a  govern- 
ment over  local  sovereigns,  might  not  improperly  be  taken  notice 
of.  Nor  could  any  proof,  more  striking,  be  given  of  the  calami- 
ties flowing  from  such  institutions.  Equally  unfit  for  self-govern- 
ment and  self-defence,  it  has  long  been  at  the  mercy  of  its  pow- 
erful neighbours ;  who  have  lately  had  the  mercy  to  disburden  it 
of  one  third  of  its  people  and  territories. 

The  connexion  among  the  Swiss  cantons,  scarcely  amounts  to  a 
confederacy  ;  though  it  is  sometimes  cited  as  an  instance  of  the 
stability  of  such  institutions. 

They  have  no  common  treasury ;  no  common  troops  even  in 
war  ;  no  common  coin  ;  no  common  judicatory,  nor  any  other 
common  mark  of  sovereignty. 

They  are  kept  together  by  the  peculiarity  of  their  topographical 
position ;  by  their  individual  weakness  and  insignificancy  ;  by  the 
fear  of  powerful  neighbours,  to  one  of  which  they  were  formerly 
subject ;  by  the  few  sources  of  contention  among  a  people  of  such 
simple  and  homogeneous  manners;  by  their  joint  interest  in  their 
dependent  possessions  ;  by  the  mutual  aid  they  stand  in  need  of, 
for  suppressing  insurrections  and  rebellions  ;  an  aid  expressly  stip- 
ulated, and  often  required  and  afforded  ;  and  by  the  necessity  of 
some  feo-ular  and  permanent  provision  for  accommodating  disputes 
amono-  the  cantons.  The  provision  is,  that  the  parties  at  variance 
shall  each  choose  four  judges  out  of  the  neutral  cantons,  who,  in 
case  of  disagreement,  choose  an  umpire.  This  tribunal,  under  an 
oath  of  impartiahty,  pronounces  definitive  sentence,  which  all  the 
cantons  are  bound  to  enforce.  The  competency  of  this  regulation 
may  be  estimated  by  a  clause  in  their  treaty  of  1683,  with  Victor 
Amadeus  of  Savoy  ;  in  which  he  obliges  himself  to  interpose  as 


THE  FEDERALIST.  9fi 

mediator  in  disputes  between  the  cantons  ;  and  to  employ  force, 
if  necessary,  against  the  contumacious  party. 

So  far  as  the  peculiarity  of  their  case  will  admit  of  comparison 
with  that  of  the  United  States,  it  serves  to  confirm  the  principle 
intended  to  be  established.  Whatever  efficacy  the  union  may  have 
had  in  ordinary  cases,  it  appears  that  the  moment  a  cause  of  dif- 
ference sprang  up,  capable  of  trying  its  strength,  it  failed.  The 
controversies  on  the  subject  of  religion,  which  in  three  instances 
have  kindled  violent  and  bloody  contests,  may  be  said  in  fact  ta 
have  severed  the  league.  The  Protestant  and  Catholic  cantons, 
have  since  had  their  separate  diets  ;  where  all  the  most  important 
concerns  are  adjusted,  and  which  have  left  the  general  diet  little 
other  business  than  to  take  care  of  the  common  bailages. 

That  separation  liad  another  consequence,  which  merits  atten- 
tion. It  produced  opposite  alliances  with  foreign  powers:  of 
Berne,  as  the  head  of  the  Protestant  association,  with  the  United 
Provinces;  and  of  Luzerne,  as  the  head  of  the  Catholic  associa- 
tion, with  France.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XX. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 

The  Subject  Continued,  toith  Further  Examples. 

The  United  Netherlands  are  a  confederacy  of  republics,  or 
rather  of  aristocracies,  of  a  very  remarkable  texture ;  yet  con- 
firming all  the  lessons  derived  from  those  which  we  have  already 
reviewed. 

The  union  is  composed  of  seven  coequal  and  sovereign  states, 
and  each  state  or  province  is  a  composition  of  equal  and  indepen- 
dent cities.  In  all  important  cases,  not  only  the  provinces,  but 
the  cities  must  be  unanimous. 

The  sovereignty  of  the  union  is  represented  by  the  states-gen- 
eral, consisting  usually  of  about  fifty  deputies  appointed  by  the 
provinces.  They  hold  their  seats,  some  for  life,  some  for  six, 
three,  and  one  years.  From  two  provinces  they  continue  in  ap- 
pointment during  pleasure. 

The  states-general  have  authority  to  enter  into  treaties  and  alli- 
ances ;  to  make  war  and  peace  ;  to  raise  armies  and  equip  fleets ; 
to  ascertain  quotas  and  demand  contributions.  In  all  these  cases, 
however,  unanimity  and  the  sanction  of  their  constituents  are 
requisite.     They  have  authority  to  appoint  and  receive  ambassa- 


96  THE  FEDERALIST. 

dors  ;  to  execute  treaties  and  alliances  already  formed  ;  to  provide 
for  the  collection  of  duties  on  imports  and  exports  ;  to  regulate 
the  mint,  with  a  saving  to  the  provincial  rights  ;  to  govern  as  sove- 
reigns the  dependent  territories.  The  provinces  are  restrained, 
unless  with  the  general  consent,  from  entering  into  foreign  trea- 
ties ;  from  establishing  imposts  injurious  to  others,  or  charging 
their  neighbours  with  higher  duties  than  their  own  subjects.  A 
council  of  state,  a  chamber  of  accounts,  with  five  colleges  of  ad- 
miralty, aid  and  fortify  the  federal  administration. 

The  executive  magistrate  of  the  union  is  the  stadtholder,  who 
is  now  an  hereditary  prince.  His  principal  weight  and  influence 
in  the  rupublic  are  derived  from  his  independent  title  ;  from  his 
great  patrimonial  estates ;  from  his  family  connexions  with  some 
of  the  chief  potentates  of  Europe  ;  and  more  than  all,  perhaps, 
from  his  being  stadtholder  in  the  several  provinces,  as  well  as  for 
the  union  :  in  which  provincial  quality,  he  has  the  appointment  of 
town  magistrates  under  certain  regulations,  executes  provincial 
decrees,  presides  when  he  pleases  in  the  provincial  tribunals  ;  and 
has  throughout  the  power  of  pardon. 

As  stadtholder  of  the  union,  he  has,  however,  considerable  pre- 
rogatives. 

In  his  political  capacity,  he  has  authority  to  settle  disputes  be- 
tween the  provinces,  when  other  methods  fail ;  to  assist  at  the  de- 
liberations of  the  states-general,  and  at  their  particular  conferen- 
ces;  to  give  audiences  to  foreign  ambassadors,  and  to  keep  agents 
for  his  particular  affairs  at  foreign  courts. 

In  his  military  capacity,  he  commands  the  federal  troops;  pro- 
vides for  garrisons,  and  in  general  regulates  military  affairs ;  dis- 
poses of  all  appointments,  from  colonels  to  ensigns,  and  of  the 
governments  and  posts  of  fortified  towns. 

In  his  marine  capacity,  he  is  admiral-general,  and  superintends 
and  directs  every  thing  relative  to  naval  forces,  and  other  naval 
affairs  ;  presides  in  the  admiralties  in  person  or  by  proxy  ;  ap- 
points lieutenant-admirals  and  other  officers  ;  and  establishes  coun- 
cils of  war,  whose  sentences  are  not  executed  till  he  approves 
them. 

His  revenue,  exclusive  of  his  private  income,  amounts  to  three 
hundred  thousand  florins.  The  standing  army  which  he  commands 
consists  of  about  forty  thousand  men. 

Such  is  the  nature  of  the  celebrated  Belgic  confederacy,  as  de- 
lineated on  parchment.  What  are  the  characters  which  practice 
has  stamped  upon  it  ?      Imbecility  in  the  government ;   discord 


THE  FEDERALIST.  97 

among  the  provinces  ;  foreign  influence  and  indignities  ;  a  preca- 
rious existence  in  peace,  and  peculiar  calamities  from  war. 

It  was  long  ago  remarked  by  Grotius,  that  nothing  but  the  ha- 
tred of  his  countrymen  to  the  house  of  Austria,  kept  them  from 
being  ruined  by  the  vices  of  their  constitution. 

The  union  of  Utretch,  says  another  respectable  writer,  reposes 
an  authority  in  the  states-general,  seemingly  sufficient  to  secure 
harmony ;  hut  the  jealousy  in  each  province  renders  the  practice 
very  difterent  from  the  theory. 

The  same  instrument,  says  another,  obliges  each  province  to 
levy  certain  contributions  ;  but  this  article  never  could,  and  prob- 
ably never  will,  be  executed  ;  because  the  inland  provinces,  who 
have  little  commerce,  cannot  pay  an  equal  quota. 

In  matters  of  contribution,  it  is  the  practice  to  wave  the  arti- 
cles of  the  constitution.  The  danger  of  delay  obliges  the  con- 
senting provinces  to  furnish  their  quotas,  without  waiting  for  the 
others  ;  and  then  to  obtain  reimbursement  from  the  others,  by  dep- 
utations, which  are  frequent,  or  otherwise,  as  they  can.  The 
great  wealth  and  influence  of  the  province  of  Holland,  enable  her 
to  effect  both  these  purposes. 

It  has  more  than  once  happened,  that  the  deficiences  have  been 
ultimately  to  be  collected  at  the  point  of  the  bayonet ;  a  thing 
practicable,  though  dreadful,  in  a  confederacy,  where  one  of  the 
members  exceeds  in  force  all  the  rest;  and  where  several  of  them 
are  too  small  to  meditate  resistance  :  but  utterly  impracticable  in 
one  composed  of  members,  several  of  which  are  equal  to  each 
other  in  strength  and  resources,  and  equal  singly  to  a  vigorous 
and  persevering  defence. 

Foreign  ministers,  says  sir  William  Temple,  who  was  himself  a 
foreign  minister,  elude  matters  taken  ad  referendum,  by  tampering 
with  the  provinces  and  cities.  In  1726,  the  treaty  of  Hanover  was 
delayed  by  these  means  a  whole  year.  Instances  of  a  like  nature 
are  numerous  and  notorious. 

In  critical  emergencies,  the  states-general  are  often  compelled 
to  overleap  their  constitutional  bounds.  In  1688,  they  concluded 
a  treaty  of  themselves,  at  the  risk  of  their  heads.  The  treaty  of 
Westphalia  in  1648,  by  which  their  independence  was  formally 
and  finally  recognised,  was  concluded  without  the  consent  of  Zea- 
land. Even  as  recently  as  the  last  treaty  of  peace  with  Great 
Britain,theconstitutionalprincipleof  unanimity  was  departed  from. 
A  weak  constitution  must  necessarily  terminate  indissolution,  foi* 
want  of  proper  powers,  or  the  usurpation  of  powers  requisite  for 
the  public  safety.  Whether  the  usurpation,  when  once  begun,  will 
11 


98  THE  FEDERALIST. 

stop  at  the  salutary  point,  or  go  forward  to  the  dangerous  extreme, 
must  depend  on  the  contingencies  of  the  moment.  Tyranny  has 
perhaps  oftener  grown  out  of  the  assumptions  of  power,  called 
for,  on  pressing  exigencies,  by  a  defective  constitution,  than  out 
of  the  full  exercise  of  the  largest  constitutional  authorities. 

Notwithstanding  the  calamities  produced  by  the  stadtholdership, 
it  has  been  supposed,  that  without  his  influence  in  the  individual 
provinces,  the  causes  of  anarchy  manifest  in  the  confederacy, 
would  long  ago  have  dissolved  it.  "  Under  such  a  government," 
says  the  abbe  Mably,  "  the  union  could  never  have  subsisted,  if 
«'  the  provinces  had  not  a  spring  within  themselves,  capable  of 
"  quickening  their  tardiness,  and  compelling  them  to  the  same  way 
"of  thinking.  This  spring  is  the  stadtholder."  It  is  remarked 
by  sir  V/illiam  Temple,  "  that  in  the  intermissions  of  the  stad- 
"  tholdership,  Holland,  by  her  riches  and  her  authority,  which 
"  drew  the  others  into  a  sort  of  dependence,  supplied  the  place." 

These  are  not  the  only  circumstances  which  have  controlled  the 
tendency  to  anarchy  and  dissolution.  The  surrounding  powers 
impose  an  absolute  necessity  of  union  to  a  certain  degree,  at  the 
game  time  that  they  nourish,  by  their  intrigues,  the  constitutional 
vices,  which  keep  the  republic  in  some  degree  always  at  their 
mercy. 

The  true  patriots  have  long  bewailed  the  fatal  tendency  of  these 
•  vices,  and  have  made  no  less  than  four  regular  experiments  by  ex- 
traordinary assemblies,  convened  for  tlie  special  purpose,  to  apply 
a  remedy.  As  many  times  has  their  laudable  zeal  found  it  impos- 
sible to  wiite  the  public  councils  in  reforming  the  known,  the  ac- 
knowledged, the  fatal  evils  of  the  existing  constitution.  Let  us 
pause,  my  fellow-citizens,  for  one  moment,  over  this  melancholy 
and  monitory  lesson  of  history  ;  and  with  the  tear  that  drops  for 
the  calamities  brought  on  mankind  by  their  adverse  opinions  and 
selfish  passions,  let  our  gratitude  mingle  an  ejaculation  to  Heaven, 
for  the  propitious  concord  which  has  distinguished  the  consulta- 
tions for  our  political  happiness. 

A  design  was  also  conceived  of  establishing  a  general  tax  to  be 
administered  by  the  federal  authority.  This  also  had  its  adver- 
saries and  failed. 

This  unhappy  people  seem  to  be  now  suffering,  from  popular 
convulsions,  from  dissensions  among  the  states,  and  from  the  ac- 
tual invasion  of  foreign  arms,  the  crisis  of  their  destiny.  All 
nations  have  their  eyes  fixed  on  the  awful  spectacle.  The  first 
wish  prompted  by  humanity  is,  that  this  severe  trial  may  issue  m 
such  a  revolution  of  their  government,  as  will  estabUsh  their  union, 


THE  FEDERALIST.  99 

and  render  it  the  parent  of  tranquillity,  freedom,  and  happiness: 
the  next,  that  the  asylum  under  which,  we  trust,  the  enjoyment  of 
these  blessings  will  speedily  be  secured  iu  this  country,  may  re- 
ceive ard  console  them  for  the  catastrophe  of  their  own. 

I  make  no  apology  for  having  dwelt  so  long  on  the  contempla- 
tion of  these  federal  precedents.  Experience  is  the  oracle  of 
truth  ;  and  where  its  responses  are  unequivocal,  they  ought  to  be 
conclusive  and  sacred.  The  important  truth,  which  it  unequivo- 
cally pronounces  in  the  present  case,  is,  that  a  sovereignty  over  sov- 
ereigns, a  government  over  governments,  a  legislation  for  commu- 
nities, as  contradistinguished  from  individuals  ;  as  it  is  a  solecism 
in  theory,  so  in  practice,  it  is  subversive  of  the  order  and  ends  of 
civil  polity,  by  substituting  violence  in  place  of  law,  or  the  destruc- 
tive coercion  of  the  sword,  in  place  of  the  mild  and  salutary  coer- 
cion of  the  magistracy.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XXI. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

Further  Defects  of  the  Present  Constitution. 

Having  in  the  three  last  numbers  taken  a  summary  review  of 
the  principal  circumstances  and  events,  which  depict  the  genius 
and  fate  of  other  confederate  governments  ;  I  shall  now  proceed 
in  the  enumeration  of  the  most  important  of  those  defects,  which 
have  hitherto  disappointed  our  hopes  from  the  system  established 
among  ourselves.  To  form  a  safe  and  satisfactory  judgment  of 
the  proper  remedy,  it  is  absolutely  necessary  that  we  should  be 
well  aquainted  with  the  extent  and  malignity  of  the  disease. 

The  next  most  palpable  defect  of  the  existing  confederation,  is 
the  total  want  of  a  sanction  to  its  laws.  The  United  States,  as 
now  composed,  have  no  power  to  exact  obedience,  or  punish  diso- 
bedience to  their  resolutions,  either  by  pecuniary  mulcts,  by  a  sus- 
pension or  divestiture  of  privileges,  or  by  any  other  constitutional 
means.  There  is  no  express  delegation  of  authority  to  them  to 
use  force  against  delinquent  members ;  and  if  such  a  right  should 
be  ascribed  to  the  federal  head,  as  resulting  from  the  nature  of 
the  social  compact  between  the  states,  it  must  be  by  inference  and 
construction,  in  the  face  of  that  part  of  the  second  article,  by 
•which  it  is  declared,  "  that  each  state  shall  retain  every  power, 
"jurisdiction,  and  right,  not  expressly  delegated  to  the  United 
"  States  in  congress  assembled."     The  want  of  such  a  right  iu- 


5/»     f    |&gt;  ^  r-% 


100  THE  FEDERALIST. 

volves,  no  doubt,  a  striking  absurdity  ;  but  we  are  reduced  to  the 
dilemma,  either  of  supposing  that  deficiency,  preposterous  as  it 
may  seem,  or  of  contravening  or  explaining  away  a  provision, 
which  has  been  of  late  a  repeated  theme  of  the  eulogies  of  those 
who  oppose  the  new  constitution  ;  and  the  omission  of  which,  in 
that  plan,  has  been  the  subject  of  much  plausible  animadversion, 
and  severe  criticism.  If  we  are  unwilling  to  impair  the  force  of 
this  applauded  provision,  we  shall  be  obliged  to  conclude,  that  the 
United  States  afford  the  extraordinary  spectacle  of  a  government, 
destitute  even  of  the  shadow  of  constitutional  power,  to  enforce 
the  execution  of  its  own  laws.  It  will  appear,  from  the  specimens 
which  have  been  cited,  that  the  American  confederacy,  in  this  par- 
ticular, stands  discriminated  from  every  other  institution  of  a  sim- 
ilar kind,  and  exhibits  a  new  and  unexampled  phenomenon  in  the 
political  world. 

The  want  of  a  mutual  guarantee  of  the  state  governments  is 
another  capital  imperfection  in  the  federal  plan.  There  is  noth- 
ing of  this  kind  declared  in  the  articles  that  compose  it :  and  to 
imply  a  tacit  guarantee  from  considerations  of  utility,  would  be 
a  still  more  flagrant  departure  from  the  clause  which  has  been 
mentioned,  than  to  imply  a  tacit  power  of  coercion,  from  the  like 
consideration.  The  want  of  a  guarantee,  though  it  might  in  its 
consequences  endanger  the  union,  does  not  so  immediately  attack 
its  existence,  as  the  want  of  a  constitutional  sanction  to  its  laws. 

Without  a  guarantee,  the  assistance  to  be  derived  from  the 
union,  in  repelling  those  domestic  dangers,  which  may  sometimes 
threaten  the  existence  of  the  state  constitutions,  must  be  renounc- 
ed. Usurpation  may  rear  its  crest  in  each  state,  and  trample  upon 
the  liberties  of  the  people  ;  while  the  national  government  could 
legally  do  nothing  more  than  behold  its  encroachments  with  in- 
dignation and  regret.  A  successful  faction  may  erect  a  tyranny 
on  the  ruins  of  order  and  law  ;  while  no  succour  could  constitu-; 
tionally  be  afforded  by  the  union  to  the  friends  and  supporters  of 
the  government.  The  tempestuous  situation,  from  which  Massa- 
chusetts has  scarcely  emerged,  evinces,  that  dangers  of  this  kind 
pre  not  merely  speculative.  Who  can  determine,  what  might  have 
been  the  issue  of  her  late  convulsions,  if  the  raalecontents  had  been 
headed  by  a  Caesar  or  by  a  Cromwell  ?  Who  can  predict,  what 
effect  a  despotism,  established  in  Massachusetts,  would  have  upon 
the  liberties  of  New  Hampshire  or  Rhode  Island  ;  of  Connecticut 
or  New  York? 

The  inordinate  pride  of  state  importance  has  suggested  to  some 
minds  an  objection  to  the  principle  of  a  guarantee  in  the  federal 


THE  FEDERALIST.  101 

government,  as  involving  an  officious  interference  in  the  domestic 
concerns  of  the  members.  A  scruj)le  of  this  kind  would  deprive 
us  of  one  of  the  principal  advantages  to  be  expected  from  union ; 
and  can  only  flow  from  a  misapprehension  of  the  nature  of  tlie 
provision  itself.  It  could  be  no  impediment  to  reforms  of  the 
state  constitutions  by  a  majority  of  the  people,  in  a  leo-al  and 
peaceable  mode.  This  rigiit  would  remain  undiminished.  The 
guarantee  could  only  operate  against  changes  to  be  etTected  by  vi- 
olence. Towards  the  prevention  of  calamities  of  this  kind,  too 
many  checks  cannot  be  provided.  The  peace  of  society,  and  the 
stability  of  government,  depend  absolutely  on  the  efficacy  of  pre- 
cautions adopted  on  this  head.  Where  the  whole  power  of  the 
government  is  in  the  hands  of  the  people,  there  is  the  less  pre- 
tence for  the  use  of  violent  remedies,  in  partial  or  occasional  dis- 
tempers of  the  state.  The  natural  cure  for  an  ill  administration, 
in  a  popular  or  representative  constitution,  is  a  change  of  men. 
A  guarantee  by  the  national  authority,  would  be  as  much  directed 
against  the  usurpations  of  rulers,  as  against  the  ferments  and 
outrages  of  faction  and  sedition  in  the  community. 

The  principle  of  regulating  the  contributions  of  the  states  to 
the  common  treasury  by  quotas,  is  another  fundamental  errour  in 
the  confederation.  Its  repugnancy  to  an  adequate  supply  of  the 
national  exigencies,  has  been  already  pointed  out,  and  has  suffi- 
ciently appeared  from  the  trial  which  has  been  made  of  it.  I 
speak  of  it  now  solely  with  a  view  to  equality  among  the  states. 
Those  who  have  been  accustomed  to  contemplate  the  circumstan- 
ces, which  produce  and  constitute  national  wealth,  must  be  satis- 
fied that  there  is  no  common  standard  or  barometer,  by  which  the 
degrees  of  it  can  be  ascertained.  Neither  the  value  of  lands,  nor 
the  numbers  of  the  people,  which  have  been  successively  proposed 
as  the  rule  of  state  contributions,  has  any  pretension  to  being  a 
just  representative.  If  we  compare  the  wealth  of  the  United 
Netherlands  with  that  of  Russia  or  Germany,  or  even  of  France ; 
and  if  we  at  the  same  time  compare  the  total  value  of  the  lands, 
and  the  aggregate  population  of  the  contracted  territory  of  that 
republic,  vrith  the  total  value  of  the  lands,  and  the  aggregate  pop- 
ulation of  the  immense  regions  of  either  of  tliose  kingdoms,  we 
shall  at  once  discover,  that  there  is  no  comparison  between  the 
proportion  of  either  of  these  two  objects,  and  that  of  the  relative 
wealth  of  those  nations.  If  the  like  parallel  were  to  be  run  be- 
tween several  of  the  American  states,  it  would  furnish  a  like  result. 
Let  Virginia  be  contrasted  with  North  Carolina,  Pennsylvania  with 
Connecticut,  or  Maryland  with  New  Jersey,  and  we  shall  be  con- 


102  THE  FEDERALIST. 

vinced  that  the  respective  abilities  of  those  states,  in  relation  to 
revenue,  bear  little  or  no  analogy  to  their  comparative  stock  in 
lands  or  to  their  comparative  population.  The  position  may  be 
equally  illustrated,  by  a  similar  process  between  the  counties  of 
the  same  state.  No  man  acquainted  with  the  state  of  New  York 
will  doubt,  that  the  active  wealth  of  Ring's  county  bears  a  much 
greater  proportion  to  that  of  Montgomery,  than  it  would  appear 
to  do,  if  we  should  take  either  the  total  value  of  the  lands,  or  the 
total  numbers  of  the  people,  as  a  criterion. 

The  wealth  of  nations  depends  upon  an  infinite  variety  of 
causes.  Situation,  soil,  climate,  the  nature  of  the  productions,  the 
nature  of  the  government,  the  genius  of  the  citizens;  the  degree 
of  information  they  possess  ;  the  state  of  commerce,  of  arts,  of 
industry  ;  these  circumstances,  and  many  more,  too  complex,  mi- 
nute or  adventitious,  to  admit  of  a  particular  specification,  occa- 
sion difterences  hardly  conceivable  in  the  relative  opulence  and 
riches  of  different  countries.  The  consequence  clearly  is,  that 
there  can  be  no  common  measure  of  national  wealth  ;  and,  of 
course,  no  general  or  stationary  rule,  by  which  the  ability  of  a 
state  to  pay  taxes  can  be  determined.  The  attempt,  therefore,  to 
regulate  the  contributions  of  the  members  of  a  confederacy,  by 
any  such  rule,  cannot  fail  to  be  productive  of  glaring  inequality 
and  extreme  oppression. 

This  inequality  would  of  itself  be  sufficient  in  America  to  work 
the  eventual  destruction  of  the  union,  if  any  mode  of  enforcing  a 
compliance  with  its  requisitions  could  be  devised.  The  suffering 
states  would  not  long  consent  to  remain  associated  upon  a  princi- 
ple which  distributed  the  public  burthens  with  so  unequal  a  hand  ; 
and  which  was  calculated  to  impoverish  and  oppress  the  citizens 
of  some  states,  while  those  of  others  would  scarcely  be  conscious 
of  the  small  proportion  of  the  weight  they  were  required  to  sus- 
tain. This,  however,  is  an  evil  inseparable  from  the  principle  of 
quotas  and  requisitions. 

There  is  no  method  of  steering  clear  of  this  inconvenience,  but 
by  authorizing  the  national  government  to  raise  its  own  revenues 
in  its  own  way.  Imposts,  excises,  and  in  general  all  duties  upon 
articles  of  consumption,  may  be  compared  to  a  fluid,  which  will 
in  time  find  its  level  with  the  means  of  paying  them.  The  amount 
to  be  contributed  by  each  citizen  will  in  a  degree  be  at  his  own 
option,  and  can  be  regulated  by  an  attention  to  his  resources.  The 
rich  may  be  extravagant.. ..the  poor  can  be  frugal :  and  private  op- 
pression may  always  be  avoided,  by  a  judicious  selection  of  objects 
proper  for  such  impositions.     If  inequalities  should  arise  in  some 


THE  FEDERALIST.  103 

states  from  duties  on  particular  objects,  these  ■will,  in  all  probabil- 
ity, be  counterbalanced  by  proportional  inequalities  in  other  states, 
from  the  duties  on  other  objects.  In  the  course  of  time  and 
things,  an  equihbrinm,  as  far  as  it  is  attainable  in  so  complicated 
a  subject,  will  be  established  everywhere.  Or  if  inequalities  should 
still  exist,  they  would  neither  be  so  great  in  their  degree,  so  uni- 
form in  their  operation,  nor  so  odious  in  their  appearance,  as  those 
which  would  necessarily  spring  from  quotas,  upon  any  scale  that 
can  possibly  be  devised. 

It  is  a  signal  advantage  of  taxes  on  articles  of  consumption, 
that  they  contain  in  their  own  nature  a  security  against  excess. 
They  prescribe  their  own  limit ;  which  cannot  be  exceeded  with- 
out defeating  the  end  proposed. ...that  is,  an  extension  of  the  reve- 
nue. When  applied  to  this  object,  the  saying  is  as  just  as  it  is  witty, 
that  "  in  political  arithmetic,  two  and  two  do  not  always  make 
"four."  If  duties  are  too  high,  they  lessen  the  consumption  ;  the 
collection  is  eluded;  and  the  product  to  the  treasury  is  not  so 
great  as  when  they  are  confined  Avithin  proper  and  moderate 
bounds. 

This  forms  a  complete  barrier  against  any  material  oppression 
of  the  citizens,  by  taxes  of  this  class,  and  is  itself  a  natural  lim- 
itation of  the  power  of  imposing  them. 

Impositions  of  this  kind  usually  fall  under  the  denomination  of 
indirect  taxes,  and  must  for  a  long  time  constitute  the  chief  part 
of  the  revenue  raised  in  this  country.  Those  of  the  direct  kind, 
which  principally  relate  to  lands  and  buildings,  may  admit  of  a 
rule  of  apportionment.  Either  the  value  of  land,  or  the  number 
of  the  people,  may  serve  as  a  standard.  The  state  of  agriculture, 
and  the  populousness  of  a  country,  are  considered  as  having  a 
near  relation  to  each  other.  And  as  a  rule  for  the  purpose  intend- 
ed, numbers,  in  the  view  of  simplicity  and  certainty,  are  entitled 
to  a  preference.  In  every  country  it  is  an  Herculean  task  to  ob- 
tain a  valuation  of  the  land  :  in  a  country  imperfectly  settled  and 
progressive  in  improvement,  the  ditficulties  are  increased  almost 
to  impracticability.  The  expense  of  an  accurate  valuation,  is  in 
all  situations  a  formidable  objection.  In  a  branch  of  taxation 
where  no  limits  to  the  discretion  of  the  government  are  to  be  found 
in  the  nature  of  the  thing,  the  establishment  of  a  fixed  rule,  not 
incompatible  with  the  end,  may  be  attended  with  fewer  incon- 
veniences than  to  leave  that  discretion  altogether  at  large. 

PUBLIUS. 


104  THE  FEDERALIST. 

NO.  XXII. 
.  By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  sume  Subject  Continued,  and  Concluded. 

In  addition  to  the  defects  of  the  existing  federal  system,  enu- 
merated in  the  last  number,  there  are  others  of  not  less  import- 
ance, which  concur  in  rendering  that  system  altogether  unfit  for 
the  administration  of  the  affairs  of  the  union. 

The  want  of  a  power  to  regulate  commerce,  is  by  all  parties 
allowed  to  be  of  the  number.  The  utility  of  such  a  power  has 
been  anticipated  under  the  first  head  of  our  inquiries  ;  and  for 
this  reason,  as  well  as  from  the  universal  conviction  entertained 
upon  the  subject,  little  need  be  added  in  this  place.  It  is  indeed 
evident,  on  the  most  superficial  view,  that  there  is  no  object,  either 
as  it  respects  the  interests  of  trade  or  finance,  that  more  strongly 
demands  a  federal  superintendence.  The  want  of  it  has  already 
operated  as  a  bar  to  the  formation  of  beneficial  treaties  with  for- 
eiirn  powers  ;  and  has  given  occasions  of  dissatisfaction  between 
the  states.  No  nation,  acquainted  with  the  nature  of  our  political 
association,  would  be  unwise  enough  to  enter  into  stipulations  with 
the  United  States,  conceding  on  their  part  privileges  of  import- 
ance, while  they  were  apprized  that  the  engagements  on  the  part 
of  the  union,  might  at  any  moment  be  violated  by  its  members ; 
and  while  they  found,  from  experience,  that  they  might  enjoy  every 
advantage  they  desired  in  our  markets,  without  granting  us  any 
return,  but  such  as  their  momentary  convenience  might  suggest. 
It  is  not,  therefore,  to  be  wondered  at,  that  Mr.  Jenkinson,in  ush* 
ering  into  the  house  of  commons  a  bill  for  regulating  the  tempora- 
ry intercourse  botween  the  two  countries,  should  preface  its  intro- 
duction by  a  declaration,  that  similar  provisions  in  former  bills 
had  been  found  to  answer  every  purpose  to  the  commerce  of  Great 
Britain,  and  that  it  would  be  prudent  to  persist  in  the  plan  until  it 
should  appear  whether  the  American  gvoernment  was  likely  or 
not  to  acquire  greater  consistency.* 

Several  states  have  endeavoured,  by  separate  prohibitions,  re- 
strictions, and  exclusions,  to  influence  the  conduct  of  that  king- 
dom in  this  particular  ;  but  the  want  of  concert,  arising  from  the 
want  of  a  general  authority,  and  from  clashing  and  dissimilar 
views  in  the  states,  has  hitherto  frustrated  every  experiment  of 
the  kind  ;  and  will  continue  to  do  so,  as  long  as  the  same  obsta- 
cles to  an  uniformity  of  measures  continue  to  exist. 

*  This,  as  nearly  as  I  can  recollect,  was  the  sense  of  this  speech  on  introducing  the  last 
billi 


THE  FEDERALIST.  105 

The  interfering  and  unneighbourly  regulations  of  some  states, 
contrary  to  the  true  spirit  of  the  union,  have,  in  different  instan- 
ces, given  just  cause  of  umbrage  and  complaint  to  others  ;  and  it 
is  to  be  feared  that  examples  of  this  nature,  if  not  restrained  by 
a  national  control,  wonld  be  multiplied  and  extended  till  they  be- 
come not  less  serious  sources  of  animosity  and  discord,  than  inju- 
rious impediments  to  the  intercourse  between  the  different  parts  of 
the  confederacy.  "  The  commerce  of  the  German  empire*  is  in  con- 
"  tinual  trammels,  from  the  multiplicity  of  the  duties  which  the 
"  several  princes  and  states  exact  upon  the  merchandises  passing 
"  through  their  territories  ;  by  means  of  which  the  fine  streams 
"and  navigable  rivers  with  which  Germany  is  so  happily  watered, 
"  are  rendered  almost  useless."  Though  the  genius  of  the  people 
of  this  country  might  never  permit  this  description  to  be  strictly 
applicable  to  us,  yet  we  may  reasonably  expect,  from  the  gradual 
conflicts  of  state  regulations,  that  the  citizens  of  each  would  at 
length  come  to  be  considered  and  treated  by  the  other  in  no  better 
light  than  that  of  foreigners  and  aliens. 

The  power  of  raising  armies,  by  the  most  obvious  construction 
of  the  articles  of  the  confederation,  is  merely  a  power  of  making 
requisitions  upon  the  states  for  quotas  of  men.  This  practice,  in 
the  course  of  the  late  war,  was  found  replete  with  obstructions  to 
a  vigorous  and  to  an  economical  system  of  defence.  It  gave  birth 
to  a  competition  between  the  states,  which  created  a  kind  of  auc- 
tion for  men.  In  order  to  furnish  the  quotas  required  of  them, 
they  outbid  each  other,  till  bounties  grew  to  an  enormous  and 
insupportable  size.  The  hope  of  a  still  further  increase,  afforded 
an  inducement  to  those  who  were  disposed  to  serve,  to  procrasti- 
nate their  enlistment ;  and  disinclined  them  from  engaging  for 
any  considerable  periods.  Hence,  slow  and  scanty  levies  of  men, 
in  the  most  critical  emergencies  of  our  affairs  ;  short  enlistments 
at  an  unparalleled  expense  ;  continual  fluctuations  in  the  troops, 
ruinous  to  their  discipline,  and  subjecting  the  public  safety  fre- 
quently to  the  perilous  crisis  of  a  disbanded  army.  Hence  also, 
those  oppressive  expedients  for  raising  men,  which  were  upon 
several  occasions  practised,  and  which  nothing  but  the  enthusiasm 
of  liberty  would  have  induced  the  people  to  endure. 

This  method  of  raising  troops  is  not  more  unfriendly  to  economy 
and  vigour,  than  it  is  to  an  equal  distribution  of  the  burthen.  The 
states  near  the  seat  of  war,  influenced  by  motives  of  self-preser- 
vation, made  efforts  to  furnish  their  quotas,  which  even  exceeded 
their  abilities ;  while  those  at  a  distance  from  danger  were,  for 

•  Eacyclopsedia,  article  Empire. 

13 


106  THE  FEDERALIST. 

the  most  part,  as  remiss  as  the  others  were  dihgent  in  their  exer- 
tions. The  immediate  pressure  of  this  inequality  Avas  not,  in  this 
case,  as  in  that  of  the  contrihutions  of  money,  alleviated  by  the 
hope  of  a  final  liquidation.  The  states  which  did  not  pay  their 
proporti6ns  of  money,  might  at  least  be  charged  with  their  deficien- 
cies ;  but  no  account  could  be  formed  of  the  deficiencies  in  the 
supplies  of  men.  We  shall  not,  however,  see  much  reason  to  re- 
gret the  want  of  this  hope,  when  we  consider  how  little  prospect 
there  is,  that  the  most  delinquent  states  ever  will  be  able  to  make 
compensation  for  their  pecuniary  failures.  The  system  of  quotas 
and  requisitions,  whether  it  be  applied  to  men  or  money,  is  in  ev- 
ery view  a  system  of  imbecility  in  the  union,  and  of  inequality 
and  injustice  among  the  members. 

The  right  of  equal  sufi^rage  among  the  states,  is  another  excep- 
tionable part  of  the  confederation.  Every  idea  of  proportion, 
and  every  rule  of  fair  representation,  conspire  to  condemn  a  prin- 
ciple, which  gives  to  Rhode  Island  an  equal  weight  in  the  scale  of 
power  with  Massachusetts,  or  Connecticut,  or  "N^a*^  York;  and  to 
Delaware  ah  equal  voice  in  the  national  deliberations  with  Penn- 
sylvania, or  Virginia,  or  North  Carolina.  Its  operation  contradicts 
that  fundamental  maxim  of  republican  government,  which  re- 
iquires  that  the  sense  of  the  majority  should  prevail.  Sophistry 
may  reply,  that  sovereigns  are  equal,  and  that  a  majority  of  the 
votes  of  the  states  will  be  a  majority  of  confederated  America; 
But  this  kind  of  logical  legerdemain  will  never  counteract  the 
plain  suggestions  of  justice  and  common  sense.  It  may  happen, 
that  this  majority  of  states  is  a  small  minority  of  the  people  of 
America;*  and  two  thirds  of  the  people  of  America  could  not 
long  be  persuaded,  upon  the  credit  of  artificial  distinctions  and 
syllogistic  subtleties  to  submit  their  interests  to  the  management 
and  disposial  of  one  third.  The  larger  states  would,  after  a  while, 
revolt  from  the  idea  of  receiving  the  law  from  the  smaller.  To 
acquiesce  in  such  a  p'rivationof  their  due  importance  in  the  politi- 
cal scale,  would  be,  not  merely  to  be  insensible  to  the  love  of 
power,  but  even  to  sacrifice  the  desire  of  equality.  It  is  neither 
rational  to  expect  the  first,  nor  just  to  require  the  last.  Consider- 
ing how  peculiarly  the  safety  and  welfare  of  the  smaller  states  de- 
pend on  union,  they  ought  readily  to  renounce  a  pretension,  which, 
if  not  relinquished,  would  prove  fatal  to  its  duration. 

It  may  be  objected  to  this,  that  not  seven,  but  nine  states,  or 

*  New  Hampshire,  Rhode  Island,  New  Jersey,  Delaware,  Georgia,  South  Carolina, 
and  Maryland,  are  a  majoriiy  of  the  whole  number  of  the  states,  but  they  do  not  contain 
one  third  of  the  people.  ,  ■       t 


THE  FEDERALIST.  107 

two  thirds  of  the  whole  number,  must  consent  to  the  most  impor- 
tant resolutions  ;  and  it  may  be  thence  inferred,  that  nine  states 
would  always  comprehend  a  majority  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 
union.  But  this  does  not  obviate  the  impropriety  of  an  equal 
vote,  between  states  of  the  most  unequal  dimensions  and  populous- 
ness  :  nor  is  the  inference  accurate  in  point  of  fact ;  for  we  can 
enumerate  nine  states,  which  contain  less  than  a  majority  of  the 
people  ;*  and  it  is  constitutionally  possible,  that  these  nine  may 
give  the  vote.  Besides,  there  are  matters  of  considerable  moment 
determinable  by  a  bare  majority  ;  and  there  are  others,  concern- 
ing which  doubts  have  been  entertained,  which,  if  interpreted  in 
favour  of  the  sufficiency  of  a  vote  of  seven  states,  would  extend 
its  operation  to  interests  of  the  first  magnitude.  In  addition  to 
this,  it  is  to  be  observed,  that  there  is  a  probability  of  an  increase 
in  the  number  of  states,  and  no  provision  for  a  proportional  aug- 
mentation of  the  ratio  of  votes. 

But  this  is  not  all :  what,  at  first  sight,  may  seem  a  remedy,  is, 
in  reality,  a  poison.  To  give  a  minority  a  negative  upon  the  ma- 
jority, which  is  always  the  case  where  more  than  a  majority  is 
requisite  to  a  decision,  is,  in  its  tendency,  to  subject  the  sense  of 
the  greater  number  to  that  of  the  lesser.  Congress,  from  the  non- 
attendance  of  a  few  states,  have  been  frequently  in  the  situation 
of  a  Polish  diet,  where  a  single  veto  has  been  sufficient  to  put  a 
stop  to  all  theii  movements.  A  sixtieth  part  of  the  union,  which 
is  about  the  proportion  of  Delaware  and  Rhode  Island,  has  sever- 
al times  been  able  to  oppose  an  entire  bar  to  its  operations.  This 
is  one  of  those  refinements,  which,  in  practice,  has  an  effect  the 
reverse  of  what  is  expected  from  it  in  theory.  The  necessity  of 
unanimity  in  public  bodies,  or  of  something  approaching  towards 
it,  has  been  founded  upon  a  supposition  that  it  would  contribute  to 
security.  But  its  real  operation  is,  to  embarrass  the  administra- 
tion, to  destroy  the  energy  of  government,  and  to  substitute  the 
pleasure,  caprice,  or  artifices  of  an  insignificant,  turbulent,  or  cor- 
rupt junto,  to  the  regular  deliberations  and  decisions  of  a  respect- 
able majority.  In  those  emergencies  of  a  nation,  in  which  the 
goodness  or  badness,  the  weakness  or  strength  of  its  government, 
is  of  the  greatest  importance,  there  is  commonly  a  necessity  for 
action.  The  public  business  must,  in  some  way  or  other,  go  for- 
ward. If  a  pertinacious  minority  can  control  the  opinion  of  a 
majority,  respecting  the  best  mode  of  conducting  it,  the  majority, 
in  order  that  something  may  be  done,  must  conform   to  the  views 

*  Add  New  Yeric  and  Connecticut  to  the  foregoing  seven,  and  they  will  still  be  less  than 
a  majority. 


108  THE  FEDERALIST. 

of  the  minority  ;  and  thus  the  sense  of  the  smaller  number  irill 
overrule  that  of  the  greater,  and  give  a  tone  to  the  national  pro- 
ceedings. Hence,  tedious  delays ;  continual  negotiation  and  in- 
trigue ;  contemptible  compromises  of  the  public  good.  And  yet, 
in  such  a  system,  it  is  even  fortunate  when  such  compromises  can 
take  place :  for  upon  some  occasions,  things  will  not  admit  of  ac- 
commodation ;  and  then,  the  measures  of  government  must  be  in- 
juriously suspended,  or  fatally  defeated.  It  is  often,  by  the  im- 
practicability of  obtaining  the  concurrence  of  the  necessary  num- 
ber of  votes,  kept  in  a  state  of  inaction.  Its  situation  must  always 
savour  of  weakness  ;  sometimes  border  upon  anarchy. 

It  is  not  difficult  to  discover,  that  a  principle  of  this  kind  gives 
greater  scope  to  foreign  corruption,  as  well  as  to  domestic  faction, 
than  that  which  permits  the  sense  of  the  majority  to  decide  ; 
though  the  contrary  of  this  has  been  presumed.  The  mistake  has 
proceeded  from  not  attending  with  due  care  to  the  mischiefs  that 
may  be  occasioned,  by  obstructing  the  progress  of  government  at 
certain  critical  seasons.  When  the  concurrence  of  a  large  num- 
ber is  required  by  the  constitution  to  the  doing  of  any  national 
act,  we  are  apt  to  rest  satisfied  that  all  is  safe,  because  nothing 
improper  will  be  likely  to  he  done;  but  we  forget,  how  much  good 
may  be  prevented,  and  how  much  ill  may  be  produced,  by  the 
power  of  hindering  that  which  it  is  necessary  to  do,  and  of  keep- 
ing affairs  in  the  same  unfavourable  posture  in  which  they  may 
happen  to  stand  at  particular  periods. 

Suppose,  for  instance,  we  were  engaged  in  a  war,  in  conjunction 
•with  one  foreign  nation,  against  another.  Suppose  the  necessity 
of  our  situation  demanded  peace,  and  that  the  interest  or  ambi- 
tion of  our  ally  led  him  to  seek  the  prosecution  of  the  war,  with 
views  that  might  justify  us  in  making  separate  termi.  In  such  a 
state  of  things,  this  ally  of  ours  would  evidently  find  it  much 
easier,  by  his  bribes  and  his  intrigues,  to  tie  up  the  hands  of  gov- 
ernment for  making  peace,  where  two  thirds  of  all  the  votes  were 
requisite  to  that  object,  than  where  a  simple  majority  would  suf- 
fice. In  the  first  case,  he  would  have  to  corrupt  a  smaller.. ..in  the 
last,  a  greater  number.  Upon  the  same  principle,  it  would  be 
much  easier  for  a  foreign  power  with  which  we  were  at  war,  to 
perplex  our  councils,  and  embarrass  our  exertions.  And  in  a 
commercial  view,  we  may  be  subjected  to  similar  inconveniences. 
A  nation,  with  which  we  might  have  a  treaty  of  commerce,  could 
with  much  greater  facility  prevent  our  forming  a  connexion  with 
her  competitor  in  trade  ;  though  such  a  connexion  should  be  ever 
so  beneficial  to  ourselves. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  109 

Evils  of  this  description  ought  not  to  be  regarded  as  imaginary. 
One  of  the  weak  sides  of  republics,  among  their  numerous  advan- 
tages, is,  that  they  afford  too  easy  an  inlet  to  foreign  corruption. 
An  hereditary  monarch,  though  often  disposed  to  sacrifice  his  sub- 
jects to  his  ambition,  has  so  great  a  personal  interest  in  the  gov- 
ernment, and  in  the  external  glory  of  the  nation,  that  it  is  not 
easy  for  a  foreign  power  to  give  him  an  equivalent  for  what  he 
would  sacrifice  by  treachery  to  the  state.  The  world  has  accord- 
ingly been  witness  to  few  examples  of  this  species  of  royal  pros- 
titution, though  there  have  been  abundant  specimens  of  every 
other  kind. 

In  republics,  persons  elevated  from  the  mass  of  the  community, 
by  the  suffrages  of  their  fellow-citizens,  to  stations  of  great  preem- 
inence and  power,  may  find  compensations  for  betraying  their  trust, 
which,  to  any  but  minds  actuated  by  superiour  virtue,  may  appear 
to  exceed  the  proportion  of  interest  they  have  in  the  common 
stock,  and  to  overbalance  the  obligations  of  duty.  Hence  it  is, 
that  history  furnishes  us  with  so  many  mortifying  examples  of  the 
prevalency  of  foreign  corruption  in  republican  governments.  How 
much  this  contributed  to  the  ruin  of  the  ancient  commonwealths, 
has  been  already  disclosed.  It  is  well  known,  that  the  deputies  of 
tlie  United  Provinces  have,  in  various  instances,  been  purchased 
by  the  emissaries  of  the  neighbouring  kingdoms.  The  earl  of 
Chesterfield,  if  my  memory  serves  me  right,  in  a  letter  to  his 
court,  intimates,  that  his  success  in  an  important  negotiation  must 
depend  on  his  obtaining  a  major's  commission  for  one  of  those 
deputies.  And  in  Sweden,  the  rival  parties  were  alternately  bought 
by  France  and  England,  in  so  barefaced  and  notorious  a  manner, 
that  it  excited  universal  disgust  in  the  nation  ;  and  was  a  principal 
cause  that  the  most  limited  monarch  in  Europe,  in  a  single  day, 
without  tumult,  violence,  or  opposition,  became  one  of  the  most 
absolute  and  uncontroled. 

A  circumstance  which  crowns  the  defects  of  the  confederation, 
Cemains  yet  to  be  mentioned.. ..the  want  of  a  judiciary  power. 
Laws  are  a  dead  letter,  without  courts  to  expound  and  define  their 
true  meaning  and  operation.  The  treaties  of  the  United  States, 
to  have  any  force  at  all,  must  be  considered  as  part  of  the  law  of 
the  land.  Their  true  import,  as  far  as  respects  individuals,  must, 
like  all  other  laws,  be  ascertained  by  judicial  determinations.  To 
produce  uniformity  in  these  determinations,  they  ought  to  be  sub- 
mitted, in  the  last  resort,  to  one  supreme  tribunal.  And  this  tri- 
bunal ought  to  be  instituted  under  the  same  authorities  which 
forms  the  treaties  themselves.     These  ingredients  are  both  indis- 


110  THE  FEDERALIST. 

pensable.  If  there  is  in  each  state  a  court  of  final  jurisdiction, 
there  may  be  as  many  different  final  determinations  on  the  same 
point,  as  there  are  courts.  There  are  endless  diversities  in  the 
opinions  of  men.  We  often  see  not  only  different  courts,  but  the 
judges  of  the  same  court,  differing  from  each  other.  To  avoid 
the  confusion  which  would  unavoidably  result  from  the  contradic- 
tory decisions  of  a  number  of  independent  judicatories,  all  nations 
have  found  it  necessary  to  establish  one  tribunal  paramount  to  the 
rest,  possessing  a  general  superintendence,  and  authorized  to  set- 
tle and  declare  in  the  last  resort  an  uniform  rule  of  civil  justice. 

This  is  the  more  necessary  where  the  frame  of  the  government 
is  so  compounded,  that  the  laws  of  the  whole  are  in  danger  of 
being  contravened  by  the  laws  of  the  parts.  In  this  case,  if  the 
particular  tribunals  are  invested  with  a  right  of  ultimate  decision, 
besides  the  contradictions  to  be  expected  from  difference  of  opin- 
ion, there  will  be  much  to  fear  from  the  bias  of  local  views  and 
prejudices,  and  from  the  interference  of  local  regulations.  As 
often  as  such  an  interference  should  happen,  there  would  be  rea- 
son to  apprehend,  that  the  provisions  of  the  particular  laws  might 
be  preferred  to  those  of  the  general  laws,  from  the  deference  with 
which  men  in  office  naturally  look  up  to  that  authority  to  which 
they  owe  their  official  existence.  The  treaties  of  the  United 
States,  under  the  present  constitution,  are  liable  to  the  infractions 
of  thirteen  different  legislatures,  and  as  many  difterent  courts  of 
final  jurisdiction,  acting  under  the  authority  of  those  legislatures. 
The  faith,  the  reputation,  the  peace  of  the  whole  union,  are  thus 
continually  at  the  mercy  of  the  prejudices,  the  passions,  and  the 
interests  of  every  member  of  which  these  are  composed.  Is  it 
possible  that  foreign  nations  can  either  respect  or  confide  in  such 
a  government  1  Is  it  possible  that  the  people  of  America  will 
longer  consent  to  trust  their  honour,  their  happiness,  their  safety, 
on  so  precarious  a  foundation  1 

In  this  review  of  the  confederation,  I  have  confined  myself  to 
the  exhibition  of  its  most  material  defects  ;  passing  over  those  im- 
perfections in  its  details,  by  which  even  a  considerable  part  of  the 
power  intended  to  be  conferred  upon  it,  has  been  in  a  great  meas- 
ure rendered  abortive.  It  must  be  by  this  time  evident  to  all  men 
of  reflection,  who  are  either  free  from  erroneous  prepossessions 
or  can  divest  themselves  of  them,  that  it  is  a  system  so  radically 
vicious  and  unsound,  as  to  admit  not  of  amendment,  but  by  an  en- 
tire change  in  its  leading  features  and  characters. 

The  organization  of  congress  is  itself  utterly  improper  for  the 
exercise  of  those  powers  which  are  necessary  to  be  deposited  in 


THE  FEDERALIST.  Ill 

the  union.  A  single  assembly  may  be  a  proper  receptacle  of  those 
slender,  or  rather  fettered  authorities,  which  have  been  heretofore 
delegated  to  the  federal  head  :  but  it  would  be  inconsistent  with 
all  the  principles  of  good  government,  to  entrust  it  with,  those  ad- 
ditional powers  which,  even  the  moderate  and  more  rational  ad- 
versaries of  the  proposed  constitution  admit,  ought  to  reside  in 
the  United  States.  If  that  plan  should  not  be  adopted;  and  if 
the  necessity  of  the  union  should  be  able  to  withstand  the  ambi* 
tious  aims  of  those  men,  who  may  indulge  magnificent  schemes  of 
personal  aggrandizement  from  its  dissolution  ;  the  probability 
would  be  that  we  should  run  into  the  project  of  conferring  sup- 
plementary powers  upon  congress,  as  they  are  now  constituted. 
And  either  the  machine,  from  the  imrinsic  feebleness  of  its  struct- 
ure, will  moulder  into  pieces,  in  spite  of  our  ill-judged  efforts  to 
prop  it;  or,  by  successive  augmentations  of  its  force  and  energy, 
as  necessity  might  prompt,  we  shall  finally  accumulate  in  a  single 
body  all  the  mo^t  important  prerogatives  of  sovereignty;  and  thus 
entail  upon  our  posterity,  one  of  the  most  execrable  forms  of  gov- 
ernment that  human  infatuation  ever  contrived.  Thus  we  should 
create  in  reahty  that  very  tyranny,  which  the  adversaries  of  the 
new  constitution  either  are,  or  affect  to  be  solicitous  to  avert. 

It  has  not  a  little  contributed  to  the  infirmities  of  the  existing 
federal  system,  that  it  never  had  a  ratification  by  the  people^ 
Resting  on  no  better  foundation  than  the  consent  of  the  several 
legislatures,  it  has  been  exposed  to  frequent  and  intricate  questions 
concerning  the  validity  of  its  powers  ;  and  has,  in  some  instances, 
given  birth  to  the  enormous  doctrine  of  a  right  of  legislative  re- 
peal. Owing  its  ratification  to  the  law  of  a  state,  it  has  been  con- 
tended, that  the  same  authority  might  repeal  the  law  by  which  it 
was  ratified.  However  gross  a  heresy  it  may  be  to  maintain,  that 
a  party  to  a.  compact  has  a.  right  to  re\oke  that  compact,  the  doc- 
trine itself  has  had  respectable  advocates.  The  possibility  of  a 
question  of  this  nature,  proves  the  necessity  of  laying  the  foun- 
dations of  our  national  government  deeper  than  in  the  mere  sanc- 
tion of  delegated  authority.  The  fabric  of  American  empire 
ought  to  rest  on  the  solid  basis  of  the  consent  of  the  people. 
The  streams  of  national  power  ought  to  flow  immediately  from 
that  pure  original  fountain  of  all  legitimate  authority. 

PUBLIUS. 


113  THE  FEDERALIST. 

NO.  XXIII. 
Bt  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  Necessity  of  a  Government,  at  Least  Equally  Energetic  with 
the  one  Proposed. 

The  necessity  of  a  constitution,  at  least  equally  energetic  with 
the  one  proposed,  to  the  preservation  of  the  union,  is  the  point, 
at  the  examination  of  which  we  are  now  arrived. 

This  inquiry  will  naturally  divide  itself  into  three  branches. 
The  objects  to  be  provided  for  by  the  federal  government ;  the 
quantity  of  power  necessary  to  the  accomplishment  of  those  ob- 
jects ;  the  persons  upon  whom  that  power  ought  to  operate.  Its 
distribution  and  organization  will  more  properly  claim  our  atten- 
tion under  the  succeeding  head. 

The  principal  purposes  to  be  answered  by  union,  are  these  :  the 
common  defence  of  the  members  ;  the  preservation  of  the  public 
peace,  as  well  against  internal  convulsions  as  external  attacks ; 
the  regulation  of  commerce  with  other  nations,  and  between  the 
states ;  the  superintendence  of  our  intercourse,  political  and  com- 
mercial, with  foreign  countries. 

The  authorities  essential  to  the  care  of  the  common  defence, 
are  these  :  to  raise  armies  ;  to  build  and  equip  fleets  ;  to  prescribe 
rules  for  the  government  of  both;  to  direct  their  operations;  to 
provide  for  their  support.  These  powers  ought  to  exist  without 
limitation  ;  because  it  is  impossible  to  foresee  or  to  define  the  ex- 
tent and  variety  of  national  exigencies,  and  the  correspondent 
extent  and  variety  of  the  means  which  may  be  necessary  to  satisfy 
them.  The  circumstances  that  endanger  the  safety  of  nations  are 
infinite  ;  and  for  this  reason,  no  constitutional  shackles  can  wisely 
be  imposed  on  the  power  to  which  the  care  of  it  is  committed. 
This  power  ought  to  be  coextensive  with  all  the  possible  combina- 
tions of  such  circumstances ;  and  ought  to  be  under  the  direction 
of  the  same  councils  which  are  appointed  to  preside  over  the  com- 
mon defence. 

This  is  one  of  those  truths  which,  to  a  correct  and  wnprejudiced 
mind,  carries  its  own  evidence  along  with  it ;  and  may  be  obscur- 
ed, but  cannot  be  made  plainer  by  argument  or  reasoning.  It 
rests  upon  axioms,  as  simple  as  they  are  universal....the  means 
ought  to  be  proportioned  to  the  end;  the  persons  from  whose 
agency  the  attainment  of  any  end  is  expected,  ought  to  possess 
the  means  by  which  it  is  to  be  attained. 

Whether  there  ought  to  be  a  federal  government  entrusted  with 
the  care  of  the  common  defence,  is  a  question,  in  the  first  ia- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  113 

glance,  open  tb  discussion ;  but  the  moment  it  is  decided  in  the 
affirmative,  it  will  follow,  that  that  government  ought  to  be  cloth* 
ed  with  all  the  powers  requisite  to  the  complete  execution  of  its 
trust.  And  unless  it  can  be  shown,  that  the  circutastances  which 
may  affect  the  public  safety,  are  reducible  within  certain  deter*- 
minate  limits  ;  unless  the  contrary  of  this  position  can  be  fairly 
and  rationally  disputed,  it  must  be  admitted  as  a  necessary  con-* 
sequence,  that  there  can  be  no  limitation  of  that  authority,  which 
is  to  provide  for  the  defence  and  protection  of  the  communityj 
in  any  matter  essential  to  its  efficacy  ;  that  is,  in  any  matter  es-' 
sential  to  the  formation,  direction,   or   support   of   the    national 

FORCES. 

Defective  as  the  present  confederation  has  been  proved  to  be, 
this  princip^e  appears  to  have  been  fully  recognised  by  the  framers 
of  it ;  though  they  have  not  made  proper  or  adequate  provision 
for  its  exercise.  Congress  have  an  unlimited  discretion  to  make 
requisitions  of  men  and  money  ;  to  govern  the  army  and  navy ; 
to  direct  their  operations.  As  their  requisitions  are  made  consti-' 
tutionnlly  binding  upon  the  states,  who  are  in  fact  under  the  most 
solemn  obligations  to  furnish  the  supplies  required  of  them,  the  in- 
tention evidently  was,  that  the  United  States  should  command 
whatever  resources  were  by  them  judged  requisite  to  the  "  common 
defence  and  general  welfare."  It  was  presumed,  that  a  sense  of 
their  tnie  interests,  and  a  regard  to  the  dictates  of  good  faith, 
would  be  found  sufficient  pledges  for  the  punctual  performance  of 
the  duty  of  the  members  to  the  federal  head. 

The  experiment  has  however  demonstrated,  that  this  expecta- 
tion was  ill  founded  and  illusory ;  and  the  observations  made  un- 
der the  last  head  will,  I  imagine,  have  sufficed  to  convince  the  im- 
partial and  discerning,  that  there  is  an  absolute  necessity  for  an 
entire  change  in  the  first  principles  of  the  system. 

That  if  we  are  in  earnest  about  giving  the  union  energy  and 
duration,  we  must  abandon  the  vain  project  of  legislating  upon 
the  states  in  their  collective  capacities ;  we  must  extend  the  laws 
of  the  federal  government  to  the  individual  citizens  of  America ; 
•we  must  discard  the  fallacious  scheme  of  quotas  and  requisitions, 
as  equally  impracticable  and  unjust.  The  result  from  all  this  is, 
that  the  union  ought  to  be  invested  with  full  power  to  levy  troops  } 
to  build  and  equip  fleets  ;  and  to  raise  the  revenues  which  will  be 
required  for  the  formation  and  support  of  an  army  and  navy,  in 
the  customary  and  ordinary  modes  practised  in  other  governments. 

If  the  circumstances  of  our  country  are  such  as  to  demand  a 
compound,  instead  of  a  simple....a  confederate  instead  of  a  sole 
13 


114  THE  FEDERALIST. 

government,  the  essential  point  which  will  remain  to  be  adjusted, 
will  be  to  discri  i  inate  the  objects,  as  far  as  it  can  be  done,  which 
shalVappertain  to  the  different  provinces  or  departments  of  power: 
allowing  to  each  the  most  ample  authority  for  fulfilling  those 
which  may  be  committed  to  its  charge.  Shall  the  union  be  consti- 
tuted the  guardian  of  the  common  safety  1  Are  fleets,  and  armies, 
and  revenues  necessary  to  this  purpose  1  The  government  of  the 
union  must  be  empowered  to  jiass  all  laws,  and  to  make  all  regu- 
lations which  have  relation  to  them.  The  same  must  be  the  case 
in  respect  to  commerce,  and  to  every  other  matter  to  which  its  ju- 
risdiction is  permitted  to  extend.  Is  the  administration  of  justice 
between  the  citizens  of  the  same  state,  the  proper  department  of 
the  local  governments  1  These  must  possess  all  the  authorities 
which  are  connected  with  this  object,  and  with  every  other  that 
may  be  allotted  to  their  particular  cognizance  and  direction.  Not 
to  confer  in  each  case  a  degree  of  power  commensurate  to  the 
end,  would  be  to  violate  the  most  obvious  rules  of  prudence  and 
propriety,  and  improvidently  to  trust  the  great  interests  of  the  na- 
tion to  hands  which  are  disabled  from  managing  them  with  vigour 
and  success. 

Who  so  likely  to  make  suitable  provisions  for  the  public  defence, 
as  that  body  to  which  the  guardianship  of  the  public  safety  is  con- 
fided ;  which,  as  the  centre  of  information,  will  best  understand 
the  extent  and  urgency  of  the  dangers  that  threaten  ;  as  the  rep- 
resentative of  the  WHOLE,  will  feel  itself  most  deeply  interested  in 
the  preservation  of  every  part ;  which,  from  the  responsibility  im- 
plied in  the  duty  assigned  to  it,  will  be  most  sensibly  impressed 
with  the  necessity  of  proper  exertions ;  and  which,  by  the  exten- 
sion of  its  authority  throughout  the  states,  can  alone  establish  uni- 
formity and  concert  in  the  plans  and  measures,  by  which  the  com- 
mon safety  is  to  be  secured  1  Is  there  not  a  manifest  inconsistency 
in  devolving  upon  the  federal  government  the  care  of  the  general 
defence,  and  leaving  in  the  state  governments  the  rffcctive  powers, 
by  which  it  is  to  be  provided  for  ?  Is  not  a  want  of  cooperation 
the  infallible  consequence  of  such  a  system  ?  And  will  not  weak- 
ness, disorder,  an  undue  distrihution  of  the  burthens  and  calami- 
ties of  war,  an  unnecessary  and  intolerable  increase  of  expense, 
be  its  natural  and  inevitable  concomitants  1  Have  we  not  had 
unequivocal  experience  of  its  effects  in  the  course  of  the  revolu- 
tion which  we  have  just  achieved  1 

Every  view  we  may  take  of  the  subject,  as  candid  inquirers  after 
truth,  will  serve  to  convince  us,  that  it  is  both  unwise  and  danger- 
ous to  deny  the  federal  government  an  unconfined  authority  in 


THE  FEDERALIST.  115 

respect  to  all  those  objects  which  are  entrusted  to  its  management. 
It  will  indeed  deserve  the  most  vigilant  and  careful  attention  of 
the  people,  to  see  that  it  be  modelled  in  such  a  manner  as  to  admit 
of  its  being  safely  vested  with  the  requisite  powers.  If  any  plan 
which  has  been,  or  may  be,  offered  to  our  cor.sideration,  should 
not,  upon  a  dispassionate  iiippection,  be  found  to  answer  this  de- 
scription, it  ought  to  be  rejected.  A  government,  the  constitution 
of  which  renders  it  unfit  to  be  entrusted  with  all  the  powers  which 
a  free  people  ought  to  delegate  to  any  govirnmcnt,  would  be  an  un- 
safe  and  improper  depository  of  the  national  interests.  Wher- 
ever THESE  can  with  propriety  be  confided,  the  coincident  powers 
may  safely  accompany  them.  This  is  the  true  result  of  all  just 
reasoning  upon  the  subject.  And  the  adversaries  of  the  plan 
promulgated  by  the  convention,  would  have  given  a  better  impres- 
sion of  tlieir  candour,  if  they  had  confined  themselves  to  showing, 
that  the  internal  structure  of  the  proposed  governmant  was  such 
as  to  render  it  unworthy  of  the  confidence  of  the  people.  They 
ought  not  to  have  wandered  into  inflammatory  declamations  and 
unmeaning  cavils,  about  the  extent  of  the  powers.  The  pow- 
ers are  not  too  extensive  for  the  objects  of  federal  administra- 
tion, or  in  other, words,  for  the  management  of  our  national  in- 
terests ;  nor  can  any  satisfactory  argument  be  framed  to  show 
that  they  are  chargeable  with  such  an  excess.  If  it  be  true,  aa 
has  been  insinuated  by  some  of  the  writers  on  the  other  side,  that 
the  difficulty  arises  from  the  nature  of  the  thing,  and  that  the  ex- 
tent of  the  country  will  not  permit  us  to  form  a  government  in 
which  such  ample  powers  can  safely  be  reposed,  it  would  prove 
that  we  ought  to  contract  our  views,  and  resort  to  the  expedient 
of  separate  confederacies,  which  will  move  within  more  practi- 
cable spheres.  For  the  absurdity  must  continually  stare  us  in  the 
face,  of  confiding  to  a  government  the  direction  of  the  most  essen- 
tial national  concerns,  without  daring  to  trust  it  with  the  author- 
ities which  are  indispensable  to  their  proper  and  efficient  man- 
agement. Let  us  not  attempt  to  reconcile  contradictions,  but  firm- 
ly embrace  a  rational  alternative. 

I  trust  however,  that  the  impracticability  of  one  general  system 
cannot  be  shown.  I  am  greatly  mistaken,  if  any  thing  of  weight 
has  yet  been  advanced  of  this  tendency  ;  and  I  flatter  myself,  that 
the  observations  which  have  been  made  in  the  course  of  these 
papers,  have  served  to  place  the  reverse  of  that  position  in  as  clear 
a  light  as  any  matter,  still  in  the  womb  of  time  and  experience, 
is  susceptible  of.  This,  at  all  events,  must  be  evident,  that  the 
very  difficulty  itself,  drawn  from  the  extent  of  the  country,  is  the 


116  THE  FEDERALIST. 

strongest  argument  in  favour  of  an  energetic  government ;  for  any- 
other  can  certainly  never  preserve  the  union  of  so  lar^e  an  empire. 
If  we  embrace,  as  the  standard  of  our  political  creed,  the  tenets 
of  those  who  ojipose  the  adoption  of  the  proposed  constitution,  we 
cannot  fail  to  verify  the  gloomy  doctrines,  which  predict  the  im- 
practicability of  a  national  system,  pervading  the  entire  limits  of 
the  present  confederacy.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XXIV. 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON, 

2%c  Subject  Continued,  with  an  Ansiocr  to  an  Objection  Concerning 
Standing  Armies. 

To  the  powers  proposed  to  be  conferred  upon  the  federal  gov- 
ernment, in  respect  to  the  creation  and  direction  of  the  national 
forces,  I  have  met  with  but  one  specific  objection ;  which  is,  that 
proper  provision  has  not  been  made  against  the  existence  of  standi 
ing  armies  in  time  of  peace  :  an  objection  M'hich,  I  shall  now  en-« 
deavour  to  show,  rests  on  weak  and  unsubstantial  foundations. 

It  has  indeed  been  brought  forward  in  the  most  vague  and  gen-« 
eral  form,  supported  only  by  bold  assertions,  without  the  appear- 
ance of  argument ;  without  even  the  sanction  of  theoretical  opin- 
ions;  in  contradiction  to  the  practice  of  other  free  nations,  and 
to  the  general  sense  of  America,  as  expressed  in  most  of  the  ex- 
isting constitutions.  The  propriety  of  this  remark  will  appear, 
the  moment  it  is  recollected  that  the  objection  under  consideration 
turns  upon  a  supposed  necessity  of  restraining  the  iegislative 
authority  of  the  nation,  in  the  article  of  military  establishments; 
a  principle  unheard  of  except  in  one  or  two  of  our  state  constitu- 
tions, and  rejected  in  all  ihe  rest. 

A  stranger  to  our  politics,  who  was  to  read  our  newspapers  at 
the  present  juncture,  without  having  previously  inspected  the  plan 
reported  by  the  convention,  would  be  naturally  led  to  one  of  two 
conclusions  :  either  that  it  contained  a  positive  injunction,  that 
standing  armies  should  be  kept  up  in  time  of  peace  ;  or  that  it  vest- 
ed in  the  EXECUTIVE  the  whole  power  of  levying  troops,  without 
eubjecting  his  discretion  in  any  shape  to  the  control  of  the  legis- 
lature. 

If  he  came  afterwards  to  peruse  the  plan  itself,  he  would  be 
surprised  to  discover,  that  neither  the  one  nor  the  other  was  the 
pase  ;  that  the  whole  power  of  raising  armies  was  lodged  in  the 
legislcifurc^  not  in  the  executive ;  thiit  this  legislature  was  to  be  ^ 


THE  FEDERALIST.  117 

popular  body,  consisting  of  the  representatives  of  the  people  peri- 
odically elected  ;  and  that  instead  of  the  provision  he  had  sup- 
posed in  favour  of  standing  armies,  there  was  to  be  found,  in  re- 
spect to  this  object,  an  important  qualification  even  of  the  legis- 
lative discretion,  in  that  clause  which  forbids  the  appropriation  of 
money  for  the  support  of  an  army  for  any  longer  period  than  two 
years  ;  a  precaution  which,  upon  a  nearer  view  of  it,  will  appear 
to  be  a  great  and  real  security  against  military  establishments 
without  evident  necessity. 

Disappointed  in  his  first  surmise,  the  person  I  have  supposed 
would  be  apt  to  pursue  his  conjectures  a  little  further.  He  would 
naturally  say  to  himself,  it  is  impossible  that  all  this  vehement  and 
pathetic  declamation  can  be  without  some  colourable  pretext. 
It  must  needs  be  that  this  people,  so  jealous  of  their  liberties,  have, 
in  all  the  preceding  models  of  the  constitutions  which  they  have 
established,  inserted  the  most  precise  and  rigid  precautions  on  this 
point,  the  omission  of  which  in  the  new  plan,  has  given  birth  to 
all  this  apprehension  and  clamour. 

If,  under  this  impression,  he  proceeded  to  pass  in  review  the 
several  state  constitutions,  how  great  would  be  his  disappointment 
to  fiind  that  two  only  of  them*  contain  an  interdiction  of  stand- 
ing armies  in  time  of  peace  ;  that  the  other  eleven  had  either  ob- 
served a  profound  silence  on  the  subject,  or  had  in  express  terms 
admitted  the  right  of  the  legislature  to  authorize  their  existence. 

Still,  however,  he  would  be  persuaded  that  there  must  be  some 
plausible  foundation,  for  the  cry  raised  on  this  head.  He  would 
never  be  able  to  imagine,  while  any  source  of  information  remain- 
ed unexplored,  that  it  was  nothing  more  than  an  experiment  upon 
the  public  credulity,  dictated  either  by  a  deliberate  intention  to 
deceive,  or  by  the  overflowings  of  a  zeal  too  intemperate  to  be  in- 
genuous. It  would  probably  occur  to  him,  that  he  would  be  like- 
ly to  find  the  precautions  he  was  in  search  of,  in  the  primitive 
compact  between  the  states.     Here,  at  length,  he  would  expect  to 

*  This  statement  of  the  matter  is  taken  from  the  printed  collection  of  state  constitutions. 
Pennsylvania  and  North  Carolina  are  the  two  which  contain  the  intertliction  in  these  words  : 
''  As  standing  armies  in  time  of  peace  are  dingerous  to  liberty,  they  ought  not  to  be 
''  kept  up."  This  is,  in  truth,,  rather  a  caution  than  a  prohibition.  New  Hampshire, 
Massachusetts,  Delaware,  and  Maryland  have,  in  each  of  their  bills  of  rights,  a  clause  to 
lliis  effect :  "  Standing  armies  are  dangerous  to  liberty,  and  ought  not  to  be  raised  or 
"  kept  up  without  the  consent  of  the  legislature;"  which  is  a  formal  admis- 
sion of  the  authority  of  the  legislature.  New  York  has  no  bill  of  rights,  and  her  constim- 
tion  says  not  a  word  about  the  matter.  No  bills  of  rights  appear  annexed  to  the  consiitu- 
UoDS  of  other  states,  and  their  constitutions  are  equally  silent.  I  am  told,  however,  that 
one  or  two  stales  have  bills  of  rights  which  do  not  appear  in  this  collection  :  but  that  tlipse 
also  rf  cogaise  ijje  right  of  the  legislative  fiuthority  in  this  respect. 


118  THE  FEDERALIST. 

meet  with  a  solution  of  the  enigma.  No  doubt,  he  would  observe 
to  himself,  the  existing  confederation  must  contain  the  most  ex- 
plicit provisions  against  military  establishments  in  time  of  peace  ; 
and  a  departure  from  this  model  in  a  favourite  point,  has  occa- 
sioned the  discontent,  which  appears  to  influence  these  political 
champions. 

If  he  should  now  apply  himself  to  a  careful  and  critical  survey 
of  the  articles  of  confederation,  his  astonishment  would  not  only 
be  increased,  but  would  acquire  a  mixture  of  indignation,  at  the 
unexpected  discovery,  that  these  articles,  instead  of  containing 
the  prohibition  he  looked  for,  and  though  they  had,  with  jealous 
circumspection,  restricted  the  authority  of  the  state  legislatures 
in  this  particular,  had  not  imposed  a  single  restraint  on  that  of 
the  United  States.  If  he  happened  to  be  a  man  of  quick  sensi- 
bility, or  ardent  temper,  he  could  now  no  longer  refrain  from  pro- 
nouncing these  clamours  to  be  the  dishonest  artifices  of  a  sinister 
and  unprincipled  opposition  to  a  plan,  which  ought  at  least  to  re- 
ceive a  fair  and  candid  examination  from  all  sincere  lovers  of 
their  country  !  How  else,  he  would  say,  could  the  authors  of  them 
have  been  tempted  to  vent  such  loud  censures  upon  that  plan, 
about  a  point,  in  which  it  seems  to  have  conformed  itself  to  the 
general  sense  of  America  as  declared  in  its  diflerent  forms  of  gov- 
ernment, and  in  which  it  has  even  superadded  a  new  and  power- 
ful guard  unknown  to  any  of  them  7  If,  on  the  contrary,  he  hap- 
pened to  be  a  man  of  calm  and  dispassionate  feelings,  he  would 
indulge  a  sigh  for  the  frailty  of  human  nature,  and  would  lament, 
that  in  a  matter  so  interesting  to  the  happiness  of  millions,  the 
true  merits  of  the  question  should  be  perplexed  and  obscured  by 
expedients  so  unfriendly  to  an  impartial  and  right  determination. 
Even  such  a  man  could  hardly  forbear  remarking,  that  a  conduct 
of  this  kind,  has  too  much  the  appearance  of  an  intention  to  mis- 
lead the  people  by  alarming  their  passions,  rather  than  to  con- 
vince them  by  arguments  addressed  to  their  understandings. 

But  however  little  this  objection  may  be  countenanced,  even  by 
precedents  among  ourselves,  it  may  be  satisfactory  to  take  a  near- 
er view  of  its  intrinsic  merits.  From  a  close  examination,  it  will 
appear,  that  restraints  upon  the  discretion  of  the  legislature,  in 
respect  to  military  establishments,  would  be  improper  to  be  im- 
posed;  and,  if  imposed,  from  the  necessities  of  society,  would  be 
unlikely  to  be  observed. 

Though  a  wide  ocean  separates  the  United  States  from  Europe, 
yet  there  are  various  considerations  that  warn  us  against  an  ex- 
cess of  confidence  or  security.     On  one  side  of  us,  stretching  far 


THE  FEDERALIST.  119 

into  our  rear,  are  growing  settlements  subject  to  the  dominion  of 
Britain.  On  the  other  side,  and  extending  to  meet  the  British 
settlements,  are  colonies  and  establishments  subject  to  the  domin- 
ion of  Spain.  This  situation,  and  the  vicinity  of  the  West  India 
islands,  belonging  to  these  two  powers,  create  between  them,  in 
respect  to  their  American  possessions,  and  in  relation  to  us,  a 
common  interest.  The  savage  tribes  on  our  western  frontier, 
ought  to  be  regarded  as  our  natural  enemies  ;  their  natural  allies : 
because  thej  have  most  to  fear  from  us,  and  most  to  hope  from 
them.  The  improvements  in  the  art  of  navigation  have,  as  to  the 
facility  of  communication,  rendered  distant  nations,  in  a  great 
measure,  neighbours.  Britain  and  Spain  are  among  the  principal 
maritime  powers  of  Europe.  A  future  concert  of  views  between 
these  nations,  ought  not  to  be  regarded  as  improbable.  The  in- 
creasing remoteness  of  consanguinity,  is  every  day  diminishing  the 
force  of  the  family  compact  between  France  and  Spain.  And 
politicians  have  ever,  with  great  reason,  considered  the  ties  of 
blood,  as  feeble  and  precarious  links  of  political  connexion.  These 
circumstances,  combitied,  admonish  us  not  to  be  too  sanguine  in 
considering  ourselves  as  entirely  out  of  the  reach  of  danger. 

Previous  to  the  revolution,  and  ever  since  the  peace,  there  has 
been  a  constant  necessity  for  keeping  small  garrisons  on  our  wes- 
tern frontier.  No  person  can  doubt,  that  these  will  continue  to  be 
indispensable,  if  it  should  only  be  to  guard  against  the  ravages 
and  depredations  of  the  Indians.  These  garrisons  must  either  be 
furnished  by  occasional  detachments  from  the  militia,  or  by  per- 
manent corps  in  the  pay  of  the  government.  The  first  is  imprac- 
ticable ;  and,  if  practicable,  would  be  pernicious.  The  militia,  in 
times  of  profound  peace,  would  not  long,  if  at  all,  submit  to  be 
dragged  from  their  occupations  and  families,  to  perform  that  most 
disagreeable  duty.  And  if  they  could  be  prevailed  upon,  or  com- 
pelled to  do  it,  the  increased  expense  of  a  frequent  rotation  of 
service,  and  the  loss  of  labour,  and  disconcertion  of  the  industri- 
ous pursuits  of  individuals,  would  form  conclusive  objections  to 
the  scheme.  It  would  be  as  burthensonie  and  injurious  to  the  pub- 
lic, as  ruinous  to  private  citizens.  The  latter  resource  of  perma- 
nent corps  in  the  pay  of  government,  amounts  to  a  standing  army 
in  time  of  peace  ;  a  small  one,  indeed,  but  not  the  less  real  for 
being  small. 

Here  is  a  simple  view  of  the  subject,  that  shows  us  at  once  the 
impropriety  of  a  constitutional  interdiction  of  such  establishments, 
and  the  necessity  of  leaving  the  matter  to  the  discretion  and  pru- 
dence of  the  legislature. 


120  THE  FEDERALIST. 

In  proportion  to  our  increase  in  strength,  it  is  probable,  nay,  it 
may  be  said,  certain,  that  Britain  and  Spain  would  augment  their 
military  establishments  in  our  neiglibourhood.  If  we  should  not 
be  willing  to  be  exposed,  in  a  naked  and  defenceless  condition,  to 
their  insults  or  encroachments,  we  should  find  it  expedient  to  in- 
crease our  frontier  garrisons,  in  some  ratio  to  the  force  by  which 
our  western  settlements  might  be  annoyed.  There  are,  and  will 
be,  particular  posts,  the  possession  of  which  will  include  the  com- 
mand of  large  districts  of  territory,  and  facilitate  future  invasions 
of  the  remainder.  It  may  be  added,  that  some  of  those  posts  will 
be  keys  to  the  trade  with  the  Indian  nations.  Can  any  man  think 
it  would  be  wise,  to  leave  such  posts  in  a  situation  to  be  at  any 
instant  seized  by  one  or  the  other  of  two  neighbouring  and  formi- 
dable powers  1  To  act  this  part,  would  be  to  desert  all  the  usual 
maxims  of  prudence  and  policy. 

If  we  mean  to  be  a  commercial  people,  or  even  to  be  secure  on 
our  Atlantic  side,  we  must  endeavour,  as  soon  as  possible,  to  have 
a  navy.  To  this  purpose,  there  must  be  dockyards  and  arsenals ; 
and,  for  the  defence  of  these,  fortifications,  and  probably  garri- 
sons. When  a  nation  has  become  so  powerful  by  sea,  that  it  can 
protect  its  dockyards  by  its  fleets,  this  supersedes  the  necessity  of 
garrisons  for  that  purpose  ;  but  where  naval  establishments  are  in 
their  infancy,  moderate  garrisons  will,  in  all  likelihood,  be  found 
an  indispensable  security  against  descents  for  the  destruction  of 
the  arsenals  and  dockyards,  and  sometimes  of  the  fleet  itself. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XXV. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  Subject  Continued,  with  the  same  View. 

It  may  perhaps  be  urged,  that  the  objects  enumerated  in  the 
preceding  number  ought  to  be  provided  by  the  state  governments, 
under  the  direction  of  the  union.  But  this  would  be  an  inversion 
of  the  primary  principle  of  our  political  association  ;  as  it  would 
in  practice  transfer  the  care  of  the  common  defence  from  the  fed- 
eral head  to  the  individual  members  :  a  project  oppressive  to  some 
states,  dangerous  to  all,  and  baneful  to  the  confederacy. 

The  territories  of  Britain,  Spain,  and  of  the  Indian  nations  in 
our  neighbourhood,  do  not  border  on  particular  states  ;  but  en- 
circle the  union  from  Maine  to  Georgia.  The  danger,  though 
in  diflferent  degrees,  is  therefore  common.     And  the  means  of 


THE  FEDERALIST.  121 

guarding  against  it,  ought  in  like  manner,  to  be  the  objects  of 
common  councils,  and  of  a  common  treasury.  It  happens  that 
some  states,  from  local  situation,  are  more  directly  exposed.  New 
York  is  of  this  class.  Upon  the  plan  of  separate  provisions,  New 
York  would  have  to  sustain  the  whole  weight  of  the  establishments 
requisite  to  her  immediate  safety,  and  to  the  mediate,  or  ultimate 
protection  of  lier  neighbours.  This  would  neither  be  equitable 
as  it  respected  New  York,  nor  safe  as  it  respected  the  other  statea. 
Various  inconveniences  would  attend  such  a  system.  The  states, 
to  wliose  lot  it  might  fall  to  support  the  necessary  establishments, 
would  be  as  little  able  as  willing,  for  a  considerable  time  to  come, 
to  bear  the  burthen  of  competent  provisions.  The  security  of  all 
would  thus  be  subjected  to  the  parsimony,  improvidence,  or  ina- 
bility of  a  part.  If,  from  the  resources  of  such  part  becoming 
more  abundant,  its  provisions  should  be  proportionably  enlarged, 
the  other  states  would  quickly  take  the  alarm  at  seeing  the  whole 
military  force  of  the  union  in  the  hands  of  two  or  three  of  its 
members  ;  and  those  probably  amongst  the  most  powerful.  They 
would  each  choose  to  have  some  counterpoise ;  and  pretences 
could  easily  be  contrived.  In  this  situation,  military  establish- 
ments, nourished  by  mutual  jealousy,  would  be  apt  to  swell  beyond 
their  natural  or  proper  size  ;  and  being  at  the  separate  disposal  of 
the  members,  they  would  be  engines  for  the  abridgment,  or  demo- 
lition, of  the  national  authority. 

Reasons  have  been  already  given  to  induce  a  supposition,  that 
the  state  governments  will  too  naturally  be  prone  to  a  rivalship 
with  that  of  the  union,  the  foundation  of  which  will  be  the  love  of 
power  :  and  that  in  any  contest  between  the  federal  head  and  one 
of  its  members,  the  people  will  be  most  apt  to  unite  with  their 
local  government.  If,  in  addition  to  this  immense  advantage,  the 
ambition  of  the  members  should  be  stimulated  by  the  separate  and 
independent  possession  of  military  forces,  it  would  afford  too  strong 
a  temptation,  and  too  great  facility  to  them  to  make  enterprises 
upon,  and  finally  to  subvert,  the  constitutional  authority  of  the 
union.  On  the  other  hand,  the  liberty  of  the  people  would  be  less 
safe  in  this  state  of  things,  than  in  that  which  left  the  national 
forces  in  the  hands  of  the  national  government.  As  far  as  an 
army  may  be  considered  as  a  dangerous  weapon  of  power,  it  had 
better  be  in  those  hands,  of  which  the  people  are  most  likely  to 
be  jealous,  than  in  those  of  which  they  are  least  likely  to  be  so. 
For  it  is  a  truth  which  the  experience  of  all  ages  has  attested,  that 
the  people  are  commonly  most  in  danger,  when  the  means  of  in- 
juring their  rights  are  in  the  possession  of  those  of  whom  they 
entertain  the  least  suspicion. 
14 


133  THE  FEDERALIST. 

The  framers  of  the  existing  confederation,  fully  aware  of  the 
danger  to  the  union  from  the  separate  possession  of  military  forces 
by  the  states,  have  in  express  terms  prohibited  them  from  having 
either  ships  or  troops,  unless  with  the  consent  of  congress.  The 
truth  is,  that  the  existence  of  a  federal  government  and  military 
establishments,  under  state  authority,  are  not  less  at  variance  with 
each  other,  than  a  due  supply  of  the  federal  treasury  and  the  sys- 
tem of  quotas  and  requisitions. 

There  are  other  views  besides  those  already  presented,  in  which 
the  impropriety  of  restraints  on  the  discretion  of  the  national  leg- 
islature will  be  equally  manifest.  The  design  of  the  objection, 
which  has  been  mentioned,  is  to  preclude  standing  armies  in  time 
of  peace  ;  though  we  have  never  been  informed  how  far  it  is  de- 
sired the  prohibition  should  extend  :  whether  to  raising  armies,  as 
well  as  to  keeping  them  up,  in  a  season  of  tranquillity,  or  not.  If 
it  be  confined  to  the  latter,  it  will  have  no  precise  signification, 
and  it  will  be  ineflfectual  for  the  purpose  intended.  When  armies 
are  once  raised,  what  shall  be  denominated  "  keeping  them  up," 
contrary  to  the  sense  of  the  constitution  1  What  time  shall  be 
requisite  to  asceitain  the  violation  1  Shall  it  be  a  week,  a  month, 
a  year  ?  Or  shall  we  say,  they  may  be  continued  as  long  as  the 
danger  which  occasioned  their  being  raised  continues  1  This  would 
be  to  admit  that  they  might  be  kept  up  in  time  of  peace,  against 
threatening  or  impending  danger  ;  which  would  be  at  once  to  de- 
viate from  the  literal  meaning  of  the  prohibition,  and  to  introduce 
an  extensive  latitude  of  construction.  Who  shall  judge  of  the 
continuance  of  the  danger  ?  This  mrast  undoubtedly  be  submitted 
to  the  national  government,  and  the  matter  would  then  be  brought 
to  this  issue,  that  the  national  government,  to  provide  against  ap- 
prehended danger,  might,  in  the  first  instance,  raise  troops,  and 
might  afterwards  keep  them  on  foot,  as  long  as  they  supposed  the 
peace  or  safety  of  the  community  was  in  any  degree  of  jeopardy. 
It  is  easy  to  perceive,  that  a  discretion  so  latitudinary  as  this,  would 
afford  ample  room  for  eluding  the  force  of  the  provision. 

The  utility  of  a  provision  of  this  kind,  can  only  be  vindicated 
on  the  hypothesis  of  a  probability,  at  least  possibility,  of  com- 
bination between  the  executive  and  legislature,  in  some  scheme 
of  usurpation.  Should  this  at  any  time  happen,  how  easy  would 
it  be  to  fabricate  pretences  of  approaching  danger  ?  Indian  hos- 
tilities, instigated  by  Spain  or  Britain,  would  always  be  at  hand. 
Provocations  to  produce  the  desired  appearances,  might  even  be 
given  to  some  foreign  power,  and  appeased  again  by  timely  con- 
cessions.    If  we  can  reasonably  presume  such  a  combination  to 


THE  FEDERALIST.  123 

have  been  formed,  and  that  the  enterprise  is  warranted  by  a  suflSi- 
cient  prospect  of  success ;  the  army  when  once  raised,  from 
whatever  cause,  or  on  whatever  pretext,  may  be  applied  to  the  ex- 
ecution of  the  project. 

If  to  obviate  this  consequence,  it  should  be  resolved  to  extend 
the  prohibition  to  the  raising  of  armies  in  time  of  peace,  the  Unit- 
ed States  would  then  exhibit  the  most  extraordinary  spectacle, 
which  the  world  has  yet  seen. ...that  of  a  nation  incapacitated  by 
its  constitution  to  prepare  for  defence,  before  it  was  actually  in- 
vaded. As  the  ceremony  of  a  formal  denunciation  of  war  has  of 
late  fallen  into  disuse,  the  presence  of  an  enemy  within  our  terri- 
tories must  be  waited  for,  as  the  legal  warrant  to  the  government 
to  begin  its  levies  of  men  for  the  protection  of  the  state.  We 
must  receive  the  blow,  before  we  could  even  prepare  to  return  it. 
All  that  kind  of  pohcy  by  which  nations  anticipate  distant  danger, 
and  meet  the  gathering  storm,  must  be  abstained  from,  as  contrary 
to  the  genuine  maxims  of  a  free  government.  We  must  expose 
our  property  and  liberty  to  the  mercy  of  foreign  invaders,  and  in- 
vite them  by  our  weakness,  to  seize  the  naked  and  defenceless 
prey,  because  we  are  afraid  that  rulers,  created  by  our  choice,  de- 
pendent on  our  will,  might  endanger  that  liberty,  by  an  abuse  of 
the  means  necessary  to  its  preservation. 

Here  I  expect  we  shall  be  told,  that  the  militia  of  the  country 
is  its  natural  bulwark,  and  would  at  all  times  be  equal  to  the 
national  defence.  This  doctrine,  in  substance,  had  like  to  have 
lost  us  our  independence.  It  cost  millions  to  the  United  States, 
that  might  have  been  saved.  The  facts,  which  from  our  own 
experience  forbid  a  reliance  of  this  kind,  are  too  recent  to  per- 
mit us  to  be  the  dupes  of  such  a  suggestion.  The  steady  op- 
erations of  war  against  a  regular  and  disciplined  army,  can  only 
be  successfully  conducted  by  a  force  of  the  same  kind.  Consider- 
ations of  economy  not  less  than  of  stability  and  vigour,  confirm  this 
position.  The  American  militia,  in  the  course  of  the  late  war, 
have,  by  their  valour  on  numerous  occasions,  erected  eternal 
monuments  to  their  fame ;  but  the  bravest  of  them  feel  and  know, 
that  the  liberty  of  their  country  could  not  have  been  established 
by  their  efforts  alone,  however  great  and  valuable  they  were. 
War,  like  most  other  things,  is  a  science  to  be  acquired  and  per- 
fected by  diligence,  by  perseverance,  by  time,  and  by  practice. 

All  violent  policy,  as  it  is  contrary  to  the  natural  and  experi- 
enced course  of  human  affairs,  defeats  itself.  Pennsylvania  at 
this  instant  affords  an  example  of  the  truth  of  this  remark.  The 
bill  of  rights  of  that  state  declares,  that  standing  armies  are  dau- 


124  THE  FEDERALIST. 

gerous  to  liberty,  and  ought  not  to  be  kept  up  in  time  of  peace. 
Pennsylvania,  nevertheless,  in  a  time  of  profound  peace,  from 
the  existence  of  partial  disorders  in  one  or  two  of  her  counties, 
has  resolved  to  raise  a  body  of  troops  ;  and  in  all  probability,  will 
keep  them  up  as  long  as  there  is  any  appearance  of  danger  to  the 
public  peace.  The  conduct  of  Massachusetts  affords  a  lesson  on 
the  same  subject,  though  on  different  ground.  That  state  (without 
waiting  for  the  sanction  of  congress,  as  the  articles  of  the  confed- 
eration require)  was  compelled  to  raise  troops  to  quell  a  domestic 
insurrection,  and  still  keeps  a  corps  in  pay  to  prevent  a  revival  of 
the  spirit  of  revolt.  The  particular  constitution  of  Massachusetts 
opposed  no  obstacle  to  the  measure  ;  but  the  instance  is  still  of 
use  to  instruct  us,  that  cases  are  likely  to  occur  under  our  govern- 
ments, as  well  as  under  those  of  other  nations,  which  will  sometimes 
render  a  military  force  in  time  of  peace  essential  to  the  security 
of  the  society,  and  that  it  is  therefore  improper,  in  this  respect,  to 
control  the  legislative  discretion.  It  also  teaches  us,  in  its  appli- 
cation to  the  United  States,  how  little  the  rights  of  a  feeble  gov- 
ernment are  likely  to  be  respected,  even  by  its  own  cons-tituents. 
And  it  teaches  us,  in  addition  to  the  rest,  how  unequal  are  parch- 
ment provisions,  to  a  struggle  with  public  necessity. 

It  was  a  fundamental  maxim  of  the  Lacedaemonian  common- 
wealth, that  the  post  of  admiral  should  not  be  conferred  twice  on 
the  same  person.  The  Peloponnesian  confederates,  having  suf- 
fered a  severe  defeat  at  sea  from  the  Athenians,  demanded  Lysan- 
der,  who  had  before  served  with  success  in  that  capacity,  to  com- 
mand the  combined  fleets.  The  Lacedpemonians,  to  gratify  their 
allies,  and  yet  preserve  the  semblance  of  an  adherence  to  their 
ancient  institutions,  had  recourse  to  the  flimsy  subterfuge  of  in- 
vesting Lysander  with  the  real  power  of  admiral,  under  the  nomi- 
nal title  of  vice-admiral.  Tliis  instance  is  selected  from  among 
the  multitude  that  might  be  cited,  to  confirm  the  truth  already  ad- 
vanced and  illustrated  by  domestic  examples  ;  which  is,  that  na- 
tions pay  little  regard  to  rules  and  maxims,  calculated  in  their 
very  nature  to  run  counter  to  the  necessities  of  society.  Wise 
politicians  will  be  cautious  about  fettering  the  government  with 
restrictions,  that  cannot  be  observed  ;  because  they  know,  that 
every  breach  of  the  fundamental  laws,  though  dictated  by  neces- 
sity, impairs  that  sacred  reverence,  which  ought  to  be  maintained 
in  the  breast  of  rulers  towards  the  constitution  of  a  country,  and 
forms  a  precedent  for  other  breaches,  where  the  same  plea  of  ne- 
cessity does  not  exist  at  all,  or  is  less  urgent  and  palpable. 

PUBLIUS, 


THE  FEDERALIST.  125 

NO.  XXVI. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  Subject  Continued,  with  the  same  View. 

It  was  a  tbiug  hardly  to  have  been  expected,  that  in  a  popular 
revolution,  the  minds  of  men  should  stop  at  that  happy  mean 
which  marks  the  salutary  boundary  between  power  and  privilege, 
and  combines  the  energy  of  government  w  ith  the  security  of  private 
rights.  A  failure  in  this  delicate  and  important  point,  is  the  great 
source  of  the  inconveniences  we  experience  ;  and  if  we  are  not 
cautious  to  avoid  a  repetition  of  the  errour,  in  our  future  attempts 
to  rectify  and  meliorate  our  system,  we  may  travel  from  one  chira- 
ercial  project  to  another  ;  we  may  try  change  after  change  ;  but  we 
shall  never  be  likely  to  make  any  material  change  for  the  better. 

The  idea  of  restraining  the  legislative  authority,  in  the  means 
for  providing  for  the  national  defence,  is  one  of  those  refinements, 
which  owe  their  origin  to  a  zeal  for  liberty  more  ardent  than  en- 
lightened. We  have  seen,  however,  that  it  has  not  had  thus  far 
an  extensive  prevalency ;  that  even  in  this  country,  where  it  made 
its  first  appearance,  Pennsylvania  and  North  Carolina  are  the  only 
two  states  by  which  it  has  been  in  any  degree  patronized  ;  and 
that  all  the  others  have  refused  to  give  it  the  least  countenance. 
They  wisely  judged  that  confidence  must  be  placed  somewhere  ; 
that  the  necessity  of  doing  it,  is  implied  in  the  very  act  of  dele- 
gating power ;  and  that  it  is  better  to  hazard  the  abuse  of  that 
confidence,  than  to  embarrass  the  government  and  endanger  the 
public  safety,  by  impolitic  restrictions  on  the  legislative  authority. 
The  opponents  of  the  proposed  constitution  combat  in  this  respect 
the  general  decision  of  America  ;  and  instead  of  being  taught  by 
experience  the  propriety  of  correcting  any  extremes  into  which 
we  may  have  heretofore  run,  they  appear  disposed  to  conduct  us 
into  others  still  more  dangerous,  and  more  extravagant.  As  if 
the  tone  of  government  had  been  found  too  high,  or  too  rigid,  the 
doctrines  they  teach  are  calculated  to  induce  us  to  depress,  or  to 
relax  it,  by  expedients  which,  upon  other  occasions,  have  been 
condemned  or  forborne.  It  may  be  affirmed  without  the  imputa.- 
tion  of  invective,  that  if  the  principles  they  inculcate,  on  various 
points,  could  so  far  obtain  as  to  become  the  popular  creed,  they 
would  utterly  unfit  the  people  of  this  country  for  any  species  of 
government  whatever.  But  a  danger  of  this  kind  is  not  to  be  ap- 
prehended. The  citizens  of  America  have  too  much  discernment 
to  be  argued  into  anarchy.  And  I  am  much  mistaken,  if  experi- 
ence has  not  wrought  a  deep  and  solemn  conviction  in  the  public 


126  THE  FEDERALIST. 

miad,  that  greater  energy  of  government  is  essential  to  the  wel- 
fare and  prosperity  of  the  community. 

It  may  not  be  amiss  in  this  place,  concisely  to  remark  the  origin 
and  progress  of  the  idea,  which  aims  at  the  exclusion  of  military 
establishments  in  time  of  peace.  Though  in  speculative  minds,  it 
may  arise  from  a  contemplation  of  the  nature  and  tendency  of 
such  institutions,  fortified  by  the  events  that  have  happened  in 
other  ages  and  countries  ;  yet  as  a  national  sentiment,  it  must  be 
traced  to  those  habits  of  thinking  which  we  derive  from  the  na- 
tion, from  which  the  inhabitants  of  these  states  have  in  general 
sprung. 

In  England,  for  a  long  time  after  the  Norman  conquest,  the  au- 
thority of  the  monarch  was  almost  unlimited.  Inroads  were  grad- 
ually made  upon  the  prerogative,  in  favour  of  liberty,  first  by  the 
barons,  and  afterwards  by  the  people,  till  the  greatest  part  of  its 
most  formidable  pretensions  became  extinct.  But  it  was  not  till 
the  revolution  in  1688,  which  elevated  the  prince  of  Orange  to 
the  throne  of  Great  Britain,  that  English  liberty  was  completely 
triumphant.  As  incident  to  the  undefined  power  of  making  war, 
an  acknowledged  prerogative  of  the  crown,  Charles  II.  had,  by 
his  own  authority,  kept  on  foot  in  time  of  peace  a  body  of  5000 
regular  troops.  And  this  number  James  II.  increased  to  30,000; 
who  were  paid  out  of  his  civil  list.  At  the  revolution,  to  abolish 
the  exercise  of  so  dangerous  an  authority,  it  became  an  article  of 
the  bill  of  rights  then  framed,  that  "  raising  or  keeping  a  standing 
"  army  within  the  kingdom  in  time  of  peace,  unless  icith  the  consent 
^''  of  parliament,  was  against  law." 

In  that  kingdom,  when  the  pulse  of  liberty  was  at  its  highest 
pitch,  no  security  against  the  danger  of  standing  armies  was 
thought  requisite,  beyond  a  prohibition  of  their  being  raised  or 
kept  up  by  the  mere  authority  of  the  executive  magistrate.  The 
patriots,  who  effected  that  memorable  revolution,  were  too  temper- 
ate, and  too  well  informed,  to  think  of  any  restraint  on  the  legis- 
lative discretion.  They  were  aware,  that  a  certain  number  of 
troops  for  guards  and  garrisons  were  indispensable  ;  that  no  pre- 
cise bounds  could  be  set  to  the  national  exigencies ;  that  a  power 
equal  to  every  possible  contingency  must  exist  somewhere  in  the 
government ;  and  that  when  they  referred  the  exercise  of  that 
power  to  the  judgment  of  the  legislature,  they  had  arrived  at  the 
ultimate  point  of  precaution,  which  was  reconcileable  with  the 
safety  of  the  community. 

From  the  same  source,  the  people  of  America  may  be  said  to 
have  derived  an  hereditary  impression  of  danger  to  liberty,  from 


THE  FEDERALIST.  127 

standing  armies  in  time  of  peace.  The  circumstances  of  a  revo- 
lution quickened  the  pubHc  sensibility  on  every  point  connected 
with  the  security  of  popular  rights,  and  in  some  instances  raised 
the  warmth  of  our  zeal  beyond  the  degree,  which  consisted  with 
the  due  temperature  of  the  body  politic.  The  attempts  of  two  of 
the  states,  to  restrict  the  authority  of  the  legislature  in  the  article 
of  military  establishments,  are  of  the  number  of  these  instances. 
The  principles  which  had  taught  us  to  be  jealous  of  the  power  of 
an  hereditary  monarch,  were,  by  an  injudicious  excess,  extended 
to  the  representatives  of  the  people  in  their  popular  assemblies. 
Even  in  some  of  the  states,  where  this  errour  was  not  adopted,  we 
find  unnecessary  declarations,  that  standing  armies  ought  not  to 
be  kept  up,  in  time  of  peace,  icithout  the  consent  of  the  legislature. 
I  call  them  unnecessary,  because  the  reason  which  had  introduced 
a  similar  provision  into  the  English  bill  of  rights,  is  not  applicable 
to  any  of  the  state  constitutions.  The  power  of  raising  armies  at 
all,  under  those  constitutions,  can  by  no  construction  be  deemed 
to  reside  anywhere  else,  than  in  the  legislatures  themselves  ;  and 
it  was  superfluous,  if  not  absurd,  to  declare,  that  a  matter  should 
not  be  done  without  the  consent  of  a  body,  which  alone  had  the 
power  of  doing  it.  Accordingly,  in  some  of  those  constitutions, 
and  among  others,  in  that  of  the  state  of  New  York,  which  has 
been  justly  celebrated,  both  in  Europe  and  America,  as  one  of  the 
best  of  the  forms  of  government  established  in  this  country,  there 
is  a  total  silence  upon  the  subject. 

It  is  remarkable,  that  even  in  the  two  states,  which  seem  to 
have  meditated  an  interdiction  of  military  establishments  in  time 
of  peace,  the  mode  of  expression  made  use  of  is  rather  monitory, 
than  prohibitory.  It  is  not  said,  that  standing  armies  shall  not  he 
kept  up,  but  that  they  ought  not  to  be  kept  up  in  time  of  peace. 
This  ambiguity  of  terms  appears  to  have  been  the  result  of  a  con- 
flict between  jealousy  and  conviction  ;  between  the  desire  of  ex- 
cluding such  establishments  at  all  events,  and  the  persuasion  that 
an  absolute  exclusion  would  be  unwise  and  unsafe. 

Can  it  be  doubted  that  such  a  provision,  whenever  the  situation 
of  public  affairs  was  understood  to  require  a  departure  from  it, 
would  be  interpreted  by  the  legislature  into  a  mere  admonition, 
and  would  be  made  to  yield  to  the  actual  or  supposed  necessities 
of  the  state  1  Let  the  fact  already  mentioned,  with  respect  to 
Pennsylvania,  decide.  What  then,  it  may  be  asked,  is  the  use  of 
such  a  provision,  if  it  cease  to  operate,  the  moment  there  is  an 
inclination  to  disregard  it  1 

Let  us  axaraine  whether  there  be  any  comparison,  in  point  of 


128  THE  FEDERALIST. 

efficacy,  between  the  provision  alluded  to,  and  that  which  is  con- 
tained in  the  new  constitution,  for  restraining  the  appropriations 
of  money  for  military  purposes  to  the  period  of  two  years.  The 
former,  by  aiming  at  too  much,  is  calculated  to  effect  nothing : 
the  latter,  by  steering  clear  of  an  imprudent  extreme,  and  by  being 
perfectly  compatible  with  a  proper  provision  for  the  exigencies  of 
the  nation,  will  have  a  salutary  and  powerful  operation. 

The  legislature  of  the  United  States  will  be  obliged,  by  this  pro- 
vision, once  at  least  in  every  two  years,  to  deliberate  upon  the 
propriety  of  keeping  a  military  force  on  foot:  to  come  to  a  new 
resolution  on  the  point;  and  to  declare  their  sense  of  the  matter, 
by  a  formal  vote  in  the  face  of  their  constituents.  They  are  not 
at  liberty  to  vest  in  the  execntive  department  permanent  funds  for 
the  support  of  an  army  ;  if  they  were  even  incautious  enough  to  be 
willin""  to  repose  in  it  so  improper  a  confidence.  As  the  spirit  of 
party  in  different  degrees,  must  be  expected  to  infect  all  political 
bodies,  there  will  be,  no  doubt,  persons  in  the  national  legislature 
willing  enough  to  arraign  the  measures,  and  criminate  the  views 
of  the  majority.  The  provision  for  the  support  of  a  military  force, 
will  always  be  a  favourable  topic  for  declamation.  As  often  as 
the  question  comes  forward,  the  public  attention  will  be  roused 
and  attracted  to  the  subject,  by  the  party  in  opposition:  and  if 
the  majority  should  be  really  disposed  to  exceed  the  proper  limits, 
the  community  will  be  warned  of  the  danger,  and  will  have  an 
opportunity  of  taking  measures  to  guard  against  it.  Independent 
of  parties  in  the  national  legislature  itself,  as  often  as  the  period 
of  discussion  arrived,  the  state  legislatures,  who  will  always  be 
not  only  vigilant,  but  suspicious  and  jealous  guardians  of  the  rights 
of  the  citizens,  against  encroachments  from  the  federal  govern- 
ment, will  constantly  have  their  attention  awake  to  the  conduct  of 
the  national  rulers,  and  will  be  ready  enough,  if  any  thing  improp- 
er appears,  to  sound  the  alarm  to  the  people,  and  not  only  to  be 
the  VOICE,  but,  if  necessary,  the  arm  of  their  discontent. 

Schemes  to  subvert  the  liberties  of  a  great  community,  require 
time  to  mature  them  for  execution.  An  army,  so  large  as  serious- 
ly to  menace  those  liberties,  could  only  be  formed  by  progressive 
augmentations  ;  which  would  suppose,  not  merely  a  temporary 
combination  between  the  legislature  and  executive,  but  a  continu- 
ed conspiracy  for  a  series  of  time.  Is  it  probable  that  such  a  conl- 
bination  would  exist  at  all  1  Is  it  probable  that  it  would  be  perse- 
vered in,  and  transmitted  through  all  the  successive  variations  in 
the  representative  body,  which  biennial  elections  would  naturally 
produce  in  both  houses  !     Is  it  presumable,   that  every  man,  the 


THE  FEDERALIST.  129 

instant  he  took  his  seat  in  the  national  senate  or  house  of  repre- 
sentatives, would  commence  a  traitor  to  his  constituents  and  to 
liis  country  1  Can  it  be  supposed,  that  there  would  not  be  found 
one  man,  discerning  enough  to  detect  so  atrocious  a  conspiracy, 
or  bold  or  honest  enough  to  apprize  his  constituents  of  their  dan- 
ger 1  If  such  presumptions  can  fairly  be  made,  there  ouglit  at 
once  to  be  an  end  of  all  delegated  authority.  The  people  should 
resolve  to  recall  all  the  powers  they  have  heretofore  parted  with  ; 
and  to  divide  themselves  into  as  many  states  as  there  are  counties, 
in  order  that  they  may  be  able  to  manage  their  own  concerns  ia 
person. 

If  such  suppositions  could  even  be  reasonably  made,  still  the 
conceahnent  of  the  design,  for  any  duration,  would  be  impractica- 
ble. It  would  be  announced,  by  the  very  circumstance  of  aug- 
menting the  army  to  so  great  an  extent,  in  time  of  profound  peace. 
What  colourable  reason  could  be  assigned,  in  a  country  so  situat- 
ed, for  such  vast  augmentations  of  the  military  force  7  It  is  im- 
possible that  the  people  could  be  long  deceived  ;  and  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  project,  and  of  the  projectors,  would  quickly  follow 
the  discovery. 

It  has  been  said,  that  the  provision  which  limits  the  appropria- 
tion of  money  for  the  support  of  an  army  to  the  period  of  two 
years,  would  be  unavailing  ;  because  the  executive,  when  once  pos- 
sessed of  a  force  large  enough  to  awe  the  people  into  submission, 
would  find  resources  in  that  very  force,  sufficient  to  enable  him  to 
dispense  with  supplies  from  the  votes  of  the  legislature.  But  the 
question  again  recurs  :  upon  what  pretence  could  he  be  put  in 
possession  of  a  force  of  that  magnitude  in  time  of  peace  ?  If  we 
suppose  it  to  have  been  created  in  consequence  of  some  domestic 
insurrection  or  foreign  war,  then  it  becomes  a  case  not  within 
the  principle  of  the  objection  ;  for  this  is  levelled  against  the  pow- 
er of  keeping  up  troops  in  time  of  peace.  Few  persons  will  be 
so  visionary,  as  seriously  to  contend  that  military  forces  ought  not 
to  be  raised  to  quell  a  rebellion,  or  resist  an  invasion  ;  and  if  the 
defence  of  the  community,  under  such  circumstances,  should  make 
it  necessary  to  have  an  army,  so  numerous  as  to  hazard  its  libeity, 
this  is  one  of  those  calamities  for  which  there  is  neither  preventa- 
tive nor  cure.  It  cannot  be  provided  against  by  any  possible  form 
of  government :  it  might  even  result  from  a  simple  league  offen- 
sive and  defensive :  if  it  should  ever  be  necessary  for  the  confed- 
erates or  allies,  to  form  an  army  for  common  defence. 

But  it  is  an  evil  infinitely  less  likely  to  attend  us  in   an  united, 
than  in  a  disunited  state  :  nay,  it  may  be  safely  asserted,  that  it  is 
15 


130  THE  FEDERALIST. 

an  evil  altogether  unlikely  to  attend  us  in  the  latter  situation.  It 
is  not  easy  to  conceive  a  possibility,  that  dangers  so  formidable 
can  assail  the  whole  union,  as  to  demand  a  force  considerable 
enough  to  place  our  liberties  in  the  least  jeopardy ;  especially  if 
we  take  into  view  the  aid  to  be  derived  from  the  militia,  which 
ought  always  to  be  counted  upon  as  a  valuable  and  powerful  aux- 
iliary. But  in  a  state  of  disunion,  as  has  fully  been  shown  in 
another  place,  the  contrary  of  this  supposition  would  become  not 
only  probable,  but  almost  unavoidable.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XXVII. 
Bt  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  Subject  Continued,  with  the  same  View. 

It  has  been  urged,  in  different  shapes,  that  a  constitution  of  the 
kind  proposed  by  the  convention,  cannot  operate  without  the  aid 
of  a  military  force  to  execute  its  laws.  This,  however,  like  most 
other  things  that  have  been  alleged  on  that  side,  rests  on  mere 
general  assertion,  unsupported  by  any  precise  or  intelligible  desig- 
nation of  the  reasons  upon  which  it  is  founded.  As  far  as  I  have 
been  able  to  divine  the  latent  meaning  of  the  objectors,  it  seems 
to  originate  in  a  presupposition,  that  the  people  will  be  disinclined 
to  the  exercise  of  federal  authority,  in  any  matter  of  an  internal 
nature.  Waving  any  exception  that  might  be  taken  to  the  inac- 
curacy, or  inexplicitness,  of  the  distinction  between  internal  and 
external,  let  us  inquire  what  ground  there  is  io  presuppose  that 
disinclination  in  the  people.  Unless  we  presume,  at  the  same  time, 
that  the  powers  of  the  general  government  will  be  worse  administer- 
ed than  those  of  the  state  governments,  there  seems  to  be  no  room 
for  the  presumption  of  ill  will,  disaffection,  or  opposition  in  the  peo- 
ple. I  believe  it  may  be  laid  down  as  a  general  rule,  that  their  confi- 
dence in,  and  their  obedience  to,  a  government,  will  commonly  be 
proportioned  to  the  goodness  or  badness  of  its  administration.  It 
must  be  admitted,  that  there  are  exceptions  to  this  rule  ;  but  these 
exceptions  depend  so  entirely  on  accidental  causes,  that  they  can- 
not be  considered  as  having  any  relation  to  the  intrinsic  merits  or 
demerits  of  a  constitution.  These  can  only  be  judged  of  by  gen- 
eral principles  and  maxims. 

Various  reasons  have  been  suggested,  in  the  course  of  these  pa- 
pers, to  induce  a  probability,  that  the  general  government  will  be 
better  administered  than  the  particular  governments  :  the  princi- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  13t 

pal  oi  wiuuii  uic,  that  the  extension  of  the  spheres  of  election 
will  present  a  greater  option,  or  latitude  of  choice,  to  the  people  ; 
that  through  the  medium  of  the  state  legislatures,  who  are  select 
bodies  of  men,  and  who  are  to  appoint  the  memhers  of  the  nation- 
al senate,  there  is  reason  to  expect,  that  this  branch  will  generally 
be  composed  with  peculiar  care  and  judgment ;  that  these  circum- 
stances promise  greater  knowledge,  and  more  comprehensive  infor- 
mation, in  the  national  councils  ;  and  that  on  account  of  the  extent 
of  the  country  from  which  will  be  drawn  those  to  whose  direction 
they  will  be  committed,  they  will  be  less  apt  to  be  tainted  by  the  spir- 
it of  faction,  and  more  out  of  the  reach  of  those  occasional  ill  hu- 
mours, or  temporary  prejudices  and  propensities,  which,  in  smaller 
societies,  frequently  contaminate  the  public  deliberations,  beget  in- 
justice and  oppression  towards  a  part  of  the  community,  and  engen- 
der schemes,  which,  though  they  gratify  a  momentary  inclination  or 
desire,  terminate  in  general  distress,  dissatisfaction,  and  disgust. 
Several  additional  reasons  of  considerable  force,  will  occur,  to 
fortify  that  probability,  when  we  come  to  survey,  with  a  more  crit- 
ical eye,  the  interiour  structure  of  the  edifice  which  we  are  invited 
to  erect.  It  will  be  sufficient  here  to  remark,  that  until  satisfacto- 
ry reasons  can  be  assigned  to  justify  an  opinion,  that  the  federal 
government  is  likely  to  be  administered  in  such  a  manner  as  to 
render  it  odious  or  contemptible  to  the  people,  there  can  be  no 
reasonable  foundation  for  the  supposition,  that  the  laws  of  the 
union  will  meet  with  any  greater  obstruction  from  them,  or  will 
stand  in  need  of  any  other  methods  to  enforce  their  execution, 
than  the  laws  of  the  particular  members. 

The  hope  of  impunity  is  a  strong  incitement  to  sedition :  the 
dread  of  punishment,  a  proportionably  strong  discouragement  to 
it.  Will  not  the  government  of  the  union,  which,  if  possessed  of 
a  due  degree  of  power,  can  call  to  its  aid  the  collective  resources 
of  the  whole  confederacy,  be  more  likely  to  repress  the  former 
sentiment,  and  to  inspire  the  latter,  than  that  of  a  single  state, 
which  can  only  command  the  resources  within  itself?  A  turbu- 
lent faction  in  a  state,  may  easily  suppose  itself  able  to  contend 
with  the  friends  to  the  government  in  that  state  ;  but  it  can  hardly 
be  so  infatuated,  as  to  imagine  itself  equal  to  the  combined  efforts 
of  the  union.  If  this  reflection  be  just,  there  is  less  danger  of  re- 
sistance from  irregular  combinations  of  individuals,  to  the  author- 
ity of  the  confederacy,  than  to  that  of  a  single  member. 

I  will,  in  the  first  place,  hazard  an  observation,  which  will  not 
be  less  just,  because  to  some  it  may  appear  new  ;  which  is,  that 
the  more  the  operations  of  the  national  authority  are  intermingled 


132  THE  FEDERALIST. 

in  the  ordinary  exei'cise  of  government;  the  more  the  citizens 
are  accustomed  to  meet  with  it  in  the  common  occurrences  of 
their  political  life  ;  the  more  it  is  familiarized  to  their  sight,  and 
to  their  feelings ;  the  further  it  enters  into  those  objects,  which 
touch  the  most  sensible  chords,  and  put  in  motion  the  most  active 
springs  of  the  human  heart  ;....the  greater  will  be  the  probability, 
that  it  Mill  conciliate  the  respect  and  attachment  of  the  communi- 
ty. Man  is  very  much  a  creature  of  habit.  A  thing  that  rarely 
strikes  his  senses,  will  have  but  a  transient  influence  upon  his 
mind.  A  government  continually  at  a  distance  and  out  of  sight, 
can  hardly  be  expected  to  interest  the  sensations  of  the  people. 
The  inference  is,  that  the  authority  of  the  union,  and  the  affec- 
tions of  the  citizens  towards  it,  will  be  strengthened,  rather  than 
weakened,  by  its  extension  to  what  are  called  matters  of  internal 
concern  ;  and  that  it  will  have  less  occasion  to  recur  to  force,  in 
proportion  to  the  familiarity  and  comprehensiveness  of  its  agency. 
The  more  it  circulates  through  those  channels  and  currents,  in 
which  the  passions  of  mankind  naturally  flow,  the  less  will  it  re- 
quire the  aid  of  the  violent  and  perilous  expedients  of  compulsion. 

One  thing,  at  all  events,  must  be  evident,  that  a  government 
like  the  one  proposed,  would  bid  much  fairer  to  avoid  the  necessi- 
ty of  using  force,  than  the  species  of  league  contended  for  by 
most  of  its  opponents  ;  the  authority  of  which  should  only  oper- 
ate upon  the  states  in  their  political  or  collective  capacities.  It 
has  been  shown,  that  in  such  a  confederacy  there  can  be  no  sanc- 
tion for  the  laws  but  force ;  that  frequent  delinquencies  in  the 
members,  are  the  natural  oflspring  of  the  very  frame  of  the  gov- 
ernment ;  and  that  as  often  as  these  happen,  they  can  only  be  re- 
dressed, if  at  all,  by  war  and  violence. 

The  plan  reported  by  the  convention,  by  extending  the  authori- 
ty of  the  federal  head  to  the  individual  citizens  of  the  several 
states,  will  enable  the  government  to  employ  the  ordinary  magis- 
tracy of  each,  in  the  execution  of  its  laws.  It  is  easy  to  perceive, 
that  this  will  tend  to  destroy,  in  the  common  apprehensions,  all 
distinction  between  the  sources  from  which  they  might  proceed  ; 
and  will  give  the  federal  government  the  same  advantage  for  se- 
curing a  due  obedience  to  its  authority,  which  is  enjoyed  by  the 
government  of  each  stale  ;  in  addition  to  the  influence  on  public 
opinion,  which  will  result  from  the  important  consideration,  of  its 
having  power  to  call  to  its  assistance  and  support  the  resources  of 
the  whole  union.  It  merits  particular  attention  in  this  place,  that 
the  laws  of  the  confederacy,  as  to  the  enumerated  and  legitimate 
objects  of  its  jurisdiction,  will  become  the  sui'REaiE  law  of  the 


THE  FEDERALIST.  133 

land  ;  to  the  observance  of  which,  all  officers,  legislative,  execu- 
tive, and  judicial,  in  each  state,  will  be  bound  by  the  sanctity  of 
an  oath.  Thus  the  legislatures,  courts,  and  niaj^istrates,  of  the 
respective  members,  will  be  incorporated  into  the  operations  of 
the  national  government,  as  far  as  its  just  and  constitutional  au- 
thority  extends ;  and  it  will  be  rendered  auxiliary  to  the  enforce- 
ment of  its  laws.*  Any  man,  who  will  pursue,  by  his  own  reflec- 
tions, the  consequences  of  this  situation,  will  perceive,  that  if  its 
powers  are  administered  with  a  common  share  of  prudence,  there 
is  good  ground  to  calculate  upon  a  regular  and  peaceable  execution 
of  the  laws  of  the  union.  If  we  will  arbitrarily  suppose  the  con- 
trary, we  may  deduce  any  inferences  we  please  from  the  supposi-. 
tion  ;  for  it  is  certainly  possible,  by  an  injudicious  exercise  of  the 
authorities  of  the  best  government  that  ever  was,  or  ever  can  be 
instituted,  to  provoke  and  precipitate  the  people  into  the  wildest 
excesses.  But  though  the  adversaries  of  the  proposed  constitution, 
should  presume,  that  the  national  rulers  would  be  insensible  to  the 
motives  of  public  good,  or  to  the  obligations  of  duty ;  I  would 
still  ask  them,  how  the  interests  of  ambition,  or  the  views  of  ea-. 
croachment,  can  be  promoted  by  such  a  conduct  1      PUBLIUS, 


NO.  XXVIII. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued. 

That  there  may  happen  cases,  in  which  the  national  govern- 
ment may  be  under  the  necessity  of  resorting  to  force,  cannot  be 
denied.  Our  own  experience  has  corroborated  the  lessons  taught 
by  the  examples  of  other  nations ;  that  emergencies  of  this  sort 
will  sometimes  exist  in  all  societies,  however  constituted  ;  that  se- 
ditions and  insurrections  are,  unhappily,  maladies  as  inseparable 
from  the  body  politic,  as  tumours  and  eruptions  from  the  natural 
body  ;  that  the  idea  of  governing  at  all  times  by  the  simple  force 
of  law,  (which  we  have  been  told  is  the  only  admissible  principle 
of  republican  government)  has  no  place  but  in  the  revery  of  those 
political  doctors,  whose  sagacity  disdains  the  admonitions  of  ex- 
perimental instruction. 

Should  such  emergencies  at  any  time  happen  under  the  national 
government,  there  could  be  no  remedy  but  force.  The  means  to 
be  employed,  must  be  proportioned  to  the  extent  of  the  mischief. 

*  The  sophistry  which  has  been  employed,  to  show  ihatthis  will  tend  to  the  destruction 
pf  the  state  governments  will,  in  its  proper  place,  be  fully  detected. 


If  it  should  be  a  sliglit  commotion  in  a  small  part  of  a  stuiC,  mft 
militia  of  the  residue  would  be  adequate  to  its  suppression ;  and 
the  natural  presumption  is,  that  tiiey  would  be  ready  to  do  their 
duty.  An  insurrection,  whatever  may  be  its  immediate  cause, 
eventually  endangers  all  government.  Regard  to  the  public  peace, 
if  not  to  the  rights  of  the  union,  would  engage  the  citizens,  to 
vvhoin  the  contagion  had  not  communicated  itself,  to  oppose  the 
insurgents  :  and  if  the  general  government  should  be  found  ia 
practice  conducive  to  the  prosperity  and  felicity  of  the  people,  it 
were  irrational  to  believe  that  they  would  be  disinclined  to  its 
support. 

If,  on  the  contrary,  the  insurrection  should  pervade  a  whole 
state,  or  a  principal  part  of  it,  the  employment  of  a  different  kind 
of  force  might  become  unavoidable.  It  appears  that  Massachu- 
setts found  it  necessary  to  raise  troops  for  suppressing  the  disor- 
ders within  that  state  ;  that  Pennsylvania,  from  the  mere  appre- 
hension of  commotions  among  a  part  of  her  citizens,  has  thought 
proper  to  have  recourse  to  the  same  measure.  Suppose  the  state 
of  New  York  had  been  inclined  to  reestablish  her  lost  jurisdiction 
over  the  inhabitants  of  Vermont ;  could  she  have  hoped  for  suc- 
cess in  such  an  enterprise,  from  the  efforts  of  the  militia  alone  1 
Would  she  not  have  been  compelled  to  raise,  and  to  maintain,  a 
more  regular  force  for  the  execution  of  her  design  ?  If  it  must 
then  be  admitted,  that  the  necessity  of  recurring  to  a  force  differ- 
ent from  the  militia,  in  cases  of  this  extraordinary  nature,  is  ap- 
plicable to  the  state  governments  themselves,  why  should  the  pos- 
sibility, that  the  national  government  might  be  under  a  like  neces- 
sity in  similar  extremities,  be  made  an  objection  to  its  existence  1 
Is  it  not  surprising  that  men,  who  declare  an  attachment  to  the 
union  in  the  abstract,  should  urge  as  an  objection  to  the  proposed 
constitution,  what  applies  with  tenfold  weight  to  the  plan  for  which 
they  contend;  and  what,  as  far  as  it  has  any  foundation  in  truth, 
is  an  inevitable  consequence  of  civil  society  upon  an  enlarged 
scale  1  Who  would  not  prefer  that  possibility,  to  the  unceasing 
agitations,  and  frequent  revolutions,  which  are  the  continual  scour- 
ges of  petty  republics  1 

Let  us  pursue  this  examination  in  another  light.  Suppose,  in 
lieu  of  one  general  system,  two  or  three,  or  even  four  confedera- 
cies were  to  be  formed,  would  not  the  same  difficulty  oppose  itself 
to  the  operations  of  either  of  these  confederacies  1  Would  not 
each  of  them  be  exposed  to  the  same  casualties  ;  and,  when  these 
happened,  be  obliged  to  have  recourse  to  the  same  expedients  for 
upholding  its  authority,  which  are  objected  to  a  gorernment  for  all 


THE  FEDERALIST.  135 

the  states  ?  "Would  the  militia,  in  this  supposition,  be  more  ready 
or  more  able  to  su[»port  the  federal  authority,  than  in  the  case  of 
a  general  union  1  All  candid  and  intelligent  men  must,  upon  due 
consideration,  acknowledge,  that  the  principle  of  the  objection  is 
equally  applicable  to  either  of  the  two  cases  ;  and  that  whether 
we  have  one  government  for  all  the  states,  or  different  govern- 
ments for  different  parcels  of  them,  or  as  many  unconnected  gov- 
ernments as  there  are  states,  there  might  sometimes  be  a  necessity 
to  make  use  of  a  force  constituted  differently  from  the  militia,  to 
preserve  the  peace  of  the  community,  and  to  maintain  the  just  au- 
thority of  the  laws  against  those  violent  invasions  of  them,  which 
amount  to  insurrections  and  rebellions. 

Independent  of  all  other  reasonings  upon  the  subject,  it  is  a  full 
answer  to  those  who  require  a  more  peremptory  provision  against 
military  establishments  in  time  of  peace,  to  say,  that  the  whole 
power  of  the  proposed  government  is  to  be  in  the  hands  of  the 
representatives  of  the  people.  This  is  the  essential,  and,  after  all, 
the  only  efficacious  security  for  the  rights  and  privileges  of  the 
people,  which  is  attainable  in  civil  society.* 

If  the  representatives  of  the  people  betray  their  constituents, 
there  is  then  no  resource  left  but  in  the  exertion  of  that  original 
right  of  self-defence,  which  is  paramount  to  all  positive  forms  of 
government ;  and  which,  against  the  usurpation  of  the  national 
rulers,  may  be  exerted  with  an  infinitely  better  prospect  of  suc- 
cess, than  against  those  of  the  rulers  of  an  individual  state.  In  a 
single  state,  if  the  persons  entrusted  with  supreme  power  become 
usurpers,  the  different  parcels,  subdivisions,  or  districts,  of  which 
it  consists,  having  no  distinct  government  in  each,  can  take  no 
regular  measures  for  defence.  The  citizens  must  rush  tumultu- 
ously  to  arms,  without  concert,  without  system,  without  resource  ; 
except  in  their  courage  and  despair.  The  usurpers,  clothed  with 
the  forms  of  legal  authority,  can  too  often  crush  the  opposition  in 
embryo.  The  smaller  the  extent  of  territory,  the  more  difficult 
will  it  be  for  the  people  to  form  a  regular,  or  systematic  plan  of 
opposition ;  and  the  more  easy  will  it  be  to  defeat  their  early  ef- 
forts. Intelligence  can  be  more  speedily  obtained  of  their  prepar- 
ations and  movements  ;  and  the  military  force  in  the  possession 
of  the  usurpers,  can  be  more  rapidly  directed  against  the  part 
where  the  opposition  has  begun.  In  this  situation,  there  must  be 
a  peculiar  coincidence  of  circumstances  to  ensure  success  to  the 
popular  resistance. 

The  obstacles  to  usurpation,  and  the  facilities  of  resistance,  in- 

#  It«  full  |.fPo:»ri-  -x-K  K,.  — ,,„:„..J  I, «     . 


136  THE  FEDERALIST. 

crease  with  the  increased  extent  of  the  state ;  provided  the  citi- 
zens understand  their  rights,  and  are  disposed  to  defend  them. 
The  natural  strength  of  the  people  in  a  large  community,  in  pro- 
portion to  the  artificial  strength  of  the  government,  is  greater  than 
in  a  small;  and  of  course  more  competent  to  a  struggle  with  the 
attempts  of  the  government  to  establish  a  tyranny.  But  in  a  con- 
federacy, the  people,  without  exaggeration,  may  be  said  to  be  en- 
tirely the  masters  of  their  own  fate.  Power  being  almost  always 
the  rival  of  power,  the  general  government  will,  at  all  times,  stand 
ready  to  check  the  usurpations  of  the  state  governments  ;  and 
these  will  have  the  same  disposition  towards  the  general  govern- 
ment. The  people,  by  throwing  themselves  into  either  scale,  will 
infallibly  make  it  preponderate.  If  their  rights  are  invaded  by 
either,  they  can  make  use  of  the  other,  as  the  instrument  of  re- 
dress. How  wise  will  it  be  in  them,  by  cherishing  the  union,  to 
preserve  to  themselves  an  advantage  which  can  never  be  too  high- 
ly prized ! 

It  may  safely  be  received  as  an  axiom  in  our  political  system, 
that  the  state  governments  will,  in  all  possible  contingencies,  afford 
complete  security  against  invasions  of  the  public  liberty  by  the 
national  authority.  Projects  of  usurpation  cannot  be  masked  un- 
der pretences  so  likely  to  escape  the  penetration  of  select  bodies 
of  men,  as  of  the  people  at  large.  The  legislatures  will  have  bet- 
ter means  of  information ;  they  can  discover  the  danger  at  a  dis- 
tance ;  and  possessing  all  the  organs  of  civil  power,  and  the  con- 
fidence of  the  people,  they  can  at  once  adopt  a  regular  plan  of 
opposition,  in  which  they  can  combine  all  the  resources  of  the 
community.  They  can  readily  communicate  with  each  other  in 
the  different  states  ;  and  unite  their  common  forces,  for  the  pro- 
tection of  their  common  liberty. 

The  great  extent  of  the  country  is  a  further  security.  We  liave 
already  experienced  its  utility  against  the  attacks  of  a  foreign  ene- 
my. And  it  would  have  precisely  the  same  effect  against  the  en- 
terprises of  ambitious  rulers  in  the  national  councils.  If  the  fed- 
eral army  should  be  able  to  quell  the  resistance  of  one  state,  the 
distant  states  would  have  it  in  their  power  to  make  head  with  fresh 
forces.  The  advantages  obtained  in  one  place  must  be  abandon- 
ed, to  subdue  the  opposition  in  others ;  and  the  moment  the  part 
which  had  been  reduced  to  submission  was  left  to  itself  its  efforts 
would  be  renewed,  and  its  resistance  revive. 

We  should  recollect,  that  the  extent  of  military  force  must,  at 
all  events,  be  regulated  by  the  resources  of  the  country.  For  a 
long  time  to  come,  it  will  not  be  possible  to  maintain  a  large  army  ; 


THE  FEDERALIST.  137 

and  as  the  means  of  doing  this  increase,  the  population,  and  the 
natural  strength  of  the  community  will  proportionably  increase. 
When  will  the  time  arrive,  that  the  federal  government  can  raise 
and  maintain  an  army  capable  of  erecting  a  despotism  over  the 
great  body  of  the  people  of  an  immense  empire,  who  are  in  a  sit- 
uation, through  the  medium  of  their  state  governments,  to  take 
measures  for  their  own  defence,  with  all  the  celerity,  regularity, 
and  system  of  independent  nations  ?  The  apprehension  may  be 
considered  as  a  disease,  for  which  there  can  be  fcmud  no  cure  in 
the  resources  of  argument  and  reasoning.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XXIX. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

Concerning  the  Militia. 

The  power  of  regulating  the  militia,  and  of  commanding  its 
services  in  times  of  insurrection  and  invasion,  are  natural  incidents 
to  the  duties  of  superintending  the  common  defence,  and  of  watch- 
ing over  the  internal  peace  of  the  confederacy. 

It  requires  no  skill  in  the  science  of  war  to  discern,  that  uni- 
formity in  the  organization  and  discipline  of  the  militia  would  be 
attended  with  the  most  beneficial  effects,  whenever  they  were  call- 
ed into  service  for  the  public  defence.  It  would  enable  them  to 
discharge  the  duties  of  the  camp  and  of  the  field,  with  mutual 
intelligence  and  concert.... an  advantage  of  peculiar  moment  in 
the  operations  of  an  army  :  and  it  would  fit  them  much  sooner  to 
acquire  the  degree  of  proficiency  in  military  functions,  which 
would  be  essential  to  their  usefulness.  This  desirable  uniformity 
can  only  be  accomplished,  by  confiding  the  regulation  of  the  mi- 
litia to  the  direction  of  the  national  authority.  It  is,  therefore, 
with  the  most  evident  propriety,  that  the  plan  of  the  convention 
proposes  to  empower  the  union  to  provide  for  organizing,  arming, 
•'  and  disciplining  the  militia,  and  for  governing  such  part  of  them 
"  as  may  be  employed  in  the  service  of  the  United  States,  reserv- 
•♦  ing  to  the  states  respectively  the  appointment  of  the  officers,  and  the 
*' authority  of  training  the  militia  according  to  the  discipline  prescrih- 
"  ed  by  congress." 

Of  the  different  grounds  which  have  been  taken  in  opposition 

to  this  plan,  there  is  none  that  was  so  little  to  have  been  expected, 

or  is  so  untenable  in  itself,  as  the  one  from  which  this  particular 

provision  has  heen  attacked.    If  a  well-regulated  militia  be  the 

16 


138  THE  FEDERALIST. 

most  natural  defence  of  a  free  country,  it  ought  certainly  to  be 
under  the  regulation  and  at  the  disposal  of  that  body,  which  is 
constituted  the  guardian  of  tlie  national  security.  If  standing 
armies  are  dangerous  to  liberty,  an  efficacious  power  over  the 
militia,  in  the  same  body,  ought,  as  far  as  possible,  to  take  away 
the  inducement  and  the  pretext,  to  such  unfriendly  institutions. 
If  the  federal  government  can  command  the  aid  of  the  militia  in 
those  emergencies,  which  call  for  the  military  arm  in  support  of 
the  civil  magistrate,  it  can  the  better  dispense  with  the  employ- 
ment of  a  different  kind  of  force.  If  it  cannot  avail  itself  of  the 
former,  it  will  be  obliged  to  recur  to  the  latter.  To  render  an 
army  unnecessary,  will  be  a  more  certain  method  of  preventing 
its  existence,  than  a  thousand  prohibitions  upon  paper. 

In  order  to  cast  an  odium  upon  the  power  of  calling  forth  the 
militia  to  execute  the  laws  of  the  union,  it  has  been  remarked, 
that  there  is  nowhere  any  provision  in  the  proposed  constitution 
for  requiring  the  aid  of  the  posse  comitatus,  to  assist  the  magis- 
trate in  the  execution  of  his  duty  ;  whence  it  has  been  inferred, 
that  military  force  was  intended  to  be  his  only  auxiliary.  There 
is  a  striking  incoherence  in  the  objections  which  have  appeared, 
and  sometimes  even  from  the  same  quarter,  not  much  calculated 
to  inspire  a  very  favourable  opinion  of  the  sincerity  or  fair  deal- 
ing of  their  authors.  The  same  persons,  who  tell  us  in  one  breath, 
that  the  powers  of  the  federal  government  will  be  despotic  and 
unlimited,  inform  us  in  the  next,  that  it  has  not  authority  sufficient 
even  to  call  out  the  posse  comitatus.  The  latter,  fortunately,  is 
as  much  short  of  the  truth,  as  the  former  exceeds  it.  It  would  be 
as  absurd  to  doubt,  that  a  right  to  pass  all  laws  necessary  and  proper 
to  execute  its  declared  powers,  would  include  that  of  requiring  the 
assistance  of  the  citizens  to  the  officers  who  may  be  entrusted 
with  the  execution  of  those  laws  ;  as  it  would  be  to  believe,  that  a 
right  to  enact  laws  necessary  and  proper  for  the  imposition  and 
collection  of  taxes,  would  involve  that  of  varying  the  rules  of  de- 
scent, and  of  the  alienation  of  landed  property,  or  of  abolishing 
the  trial  by  jury  in  cj^ses  relating  to  it.  It  being  therefore  evident, 
that  the  supposition  of  a  want  of  power  to  require  the  aid  of  the 
POSSE  COMITATUS  is  entirely  destitute  of  colour,  it  will  follow,  that 
the  conclusion  which  has  been  drawn  from  it,  in  its  application  to 
the  authority  of  the  federal  government  over  the  militia,  is  as  un- 
candid,  as  it  is  illogical.  What  reason  could  there  be  to  infer, 
that  force  was  intended  to  be  the  sole  instrument  of  authority, 
merely  because  there  is  a  power  to  make  use  of  it  when  neces- 
sary 1     What  shall  we  think  of  the  motives,   which  could  induce 


THE  FEDERALIST.  139 

men  of  sense  to  reason  in  this  extraordinary  manner  ?     How  shall 
we  prevent  a  conflict  between  charity  and  conviction  1 

By  a  curious  refinement  upon  the  spirit  of  republican  jealousy, 
we  are  even  taught  to  appreliend  danger  from  the  militia  itself,  in 
the  hands  of  the  federal  government.  It  is  observed,  that  select 
corps  may  be  formed,  composed  of  the  young  and  the  ardent,  who 
may  be  rendered  subservient  to  the  views  of  arbitrary  power. 
What  plan  for  the  regulation  of  the  militia  may  be  pursued  by  the 
national  government,  is  impossible  to  be  foreseen.  But  so  far 
from  viewing  the  matter  in  the  same  light  with  those  who  object 
to  select  corps  as  dangerous,  were  the  constitution  ratified,  and 
were  I  to  deliver  my  sentiments  to  a  member  of  the  federal  legis- 
lature on  the  subject  of  a  militia  establishment,  I  should  hold  to 
him  in  substance  the  following  discourse  : 

"  The  project  of  disciplining  all  the  militia  of  the  United  States, 
"  is  as  futile  as  it  would  be  injurious,  if  it  were  capable  of  being 
"  carried  into  execution.  A  tolerable  expertness  in  military  niove- 
"  ments,  is  a  business  that  requires  time  and  practice.  It  is  not  a 
"  day,  nor  a  week,  nor  even  a  month,  that  will  suffice  for  the  at- 
"  tainment  of  it.  To  oblige  the  great  body  of  the  yeomanry,  and 
"of  the  other  classes  of  the  citizens,  to  be  under  arms  for  the  pur- 
"  pose  of  going  through  military  exercises  and  evokitions,  as  often 
"  as  might  be  necessary  to  acquire  the  degree  of  perfection  which 
"  would  entitle  them  to  the  character  of  a  well-regulated  militia, 
"  would  be  a  real  grievance  to  the  people,  and  a  serious  public  in- 
"  convenience  and  loss.  It  would  form  an  annual  deduction  from 
"  the  productive  labour  of  the  country,  to  an  amount,  which,  cal- 
"  culating  upon  the  present  numbers  of  tlie  people,  would  not  fall 
"  far  short  of  a  million  of  pounds.  To  attempt  a  thing  which 
*'  would  abridge  the  mass  of  labour  and  industry  to  so  considera- 
"ble  an  extent,  would  be  unwise;  and  the  experiment,  if  made, 
"  could  not  succeed,  because  it  would  not  long  be  endured.  Lit- 
"  tie  more  can  reasonably  be  aimed  at  with  respect  to  the  people 
"  at  large,  than  to  have  them  properly  armed  and  equipped  ;  and 
'♦  in  order  to  see  that  this  be  not  neglected,  it  will  be  necessary  to 
"  assemble  them  once  or  twice  in  the  course  of  a  year. 

"  But  though  the  scheme  of  disciplining  the  whole  nation  must 
"  be  abandoned  as  mischievous  or  impracticable  ;  yet  it  is  a  mat- 
"ter  of  the  utmost  importance,  that  a  well-digested  plan  should, 
♦'  as  soon  as  possible,  be  adopted  for  the  proper  establishment  of 
•'  the  militia.  The  attention  of  the  government  ought  particular- 
"  ly  to  be  directed  to  the  formation  of  a  select  corps  of  moderate 
**  size,  upon  such  principles  as  will  really  fit  it  for  service  in  case 


140  THE  FEDERALIST. 

•'  of  need.  By  thus  circumscribing  the  plan,  it  will  be  possible  to 
"  have  an  excellent  body  of  well-trained  militia,  ready  to  take  the 
"  field  whenever  the  defence  of  the  state  shall  require  it.  This 
"  will  not  only  lessen  the  call  for  military  establishments  ;  but  if 
"circumstances  should  at  any  time  oblige  the  government  to  form 
*'  an  army  of  any  magnitude,  that  army  can  never  be  formidable 
"  to  the  liberties  of  the  people,  while  there  is  a  large  body  of  citi- 
"  zeiis,  little,  if  at  all,  iuferiour  to  them  in  discipline  and  the  use 
*'  of  arms,  who  stand  ready  to  defend  their  own  rights,  and  those 
"  of  their  fellow-citizens.  This  appears  to  me  the  only  substitute 
"  that  can  be  devised  for  a  standing  army  ;  and  the  best  possible 
"  security  against  it,  if  it  should  exist." 

Thus  differently  from  the  adversaries  of  the  proposed  constitu- 
tion should  I  reason  on  the  same  subject ;  deducing  arguments  of 
safety  from  the  very  sources  which  they  represent  as  fraught  with 
danger  and  perdition.  But  how  the  national  legislature  may  rea- 
son on  the  point,  is  a  thing  which  neither  they  nor  I  can  foresee. 

There  is  something  so  far-fetched,  and  so  extravagant,  in  the 
idea  of  danger  to  liberty  from  the  militia,  that  one  is  at  a  loss, 
whether  to  treat  it  with  gravity  or  with  raillery  ;  whether  to  con- 
sider it  as  a  mere  trial  of  skill,  like  the  paradoxes  of  rhetoricians  ; 
as  a  disingenuous  artifice,  to  instil  prejudices  at  any  price  ;  or  as 
the  serious  offspring  of  political  fanaticism.  Where,  in  the  name 
of  common  sense,  are  our  fears  to  end,  if  we  may  not  trust  our 
sons,  our  brothers,  our  neighbours,  our  fellow-citizens  ?  What 
shadow  of  danger  can  there  be  from  men,  who  are  daily  mingling 
with  the  rest  of  their  countrymen  ;  and  who  participate  with  them 
in  the  same  feelings,  sentiments,  habits,  and  interests  ?  What 
reasonable  cause  of  apprehension  can  be  inferred  from  a  power  in 
the  union  to  prescribe  regulations  for  the  militia,  and  to  command 
its  services  when  necessary ;  while  the  particular  states  are  to  have 
the  sole  and  exclusive  appointment  of  the  officers  ?  If  it  were  possi- 
ble seriously  to  indulge  a  jealousy  of  the  militia,  upon  any  con- 
ceivable establishment  under  the  federal  government,  the  circum- 
stance of  the  officers  being  in  the  appointment  of  the  states,  ought 
at  once  to  extinguish  it.  Tliere  can  be  no  doqbt,  that  this  circum- 
stance will  always  secure  to  them  a  preponderating  influence  over 
the  militia. 

In  reading  many  of  the  publications  against  the  constitution,   a 
man  is  apt  to  imagine  that  he  is  perusing  some  ill-written  tale  or 
romance  ;  which,  instead  of  natural  and  agreeable  images,  exhib- 
its to  the  mind  nothing  but  frightful  and  distorted  shapes.... 
"  Gorgons,  Hydras,  and  Chimeras  dire ;" 


THE  FEDERALIST.  141 

discolouring  and  disfiguring  whatever  it  represents,  and  transform- 
ing every  thing  it  touches  into  a  monster. 

A  sample  of  this  is  to  be  observed  in  the  exafff^erated  and  im- 
probable snggCKtions  which  have  taken  place  respectino- the  power 
of  calling  for  the  services  of  the  militia.  That  of  New  Hamp- 
shire is  to  be  marched  to  Georgia,  of  Georgia  to  New  Hampshire, 
of  New  York  to  Kentucky,  and  of  Kentucky  to  lake  Champlain. 
Nay,  the  debts  due  to  the  French  and  Dutch,  are  to  be  paid  in 
militia-men,  instead  of  Louis  d'ors  and  dncats.  At  one  moment, 
there  is  to  be  a  large  army  to  lay  prostrate  the  liberties  of  the 
people  ;  at  another  moment,  the  militia  of  Virginia  are  to  be 
dragged  from  their  homes,  five  or  six  hundred  miles,  to  tame  the 
republican  contumacy  of  Massachusetts ;  and  that  of  Massachu- 
setts is  to  be  transported  an  equal  distance,  to  subdue  the  refrac- 
tory haughtiness  of  the  aristocratic  Virginians.  Do  the  persons, 
who  rave  at  this  rate,  imagine,  that  their  art  or  their  eloquence 
can  impose  any  conceits  or  absurdities  upon  the  people  of  Amer- 
ica for  infallible  truths  7 

If  there  should  be  an  army  to  be  made  use  of  as  the  engine  of 
despotism,  what  need  of  the  militia  ?  If  there  should  be  no  army, 
whither  would  the  militia,  irritated  at  being  required  to  undertake 
a  distant  and  distressing  expedition,  for  the  purpose  of  riveting 
the  chains  of  slavery  upon  a  part  of  their  countrymen,  direct  their 
course,  but  to  the  seat  of  the  tyrants,  who  had  meditated  so  fool- 
ish, as  well  as  so  wicked  a  project ;  to  crush  them  in  their  imao-- 
ined  entrenchments  of  power,  and  make  them  an  example  of  the 
just  vengeance  of  an  abused  and  incensed  people  ?  Is  this  the 
way  in  which  usurpers  stride  to  dominion  over  a  numerous  and 
enlightened  nation  ?  Do  they  begin  by  exciting  the  detestation  of 
the  very  instruments  of  their  intended  usurpations  ?  Do  they 
usually  commence  their  career  by  wanton  and  disgustful  acts  of 
power,  calculated  to  answer  no  end,  but  to  draw  upon  themselves 
universal  hatred  and  execration  ?  Are  suppositions  of  this  sort, 
the  sober  admonitions  of  discerning  patriots  to  a  discerning  peo- 
ple 1  Or  are  they  the  inflammatory  ravings  of  chagrined  incen- 
diaries, or  distempered  enthusiasts  ?  If  we  were  even  to  suppose 
the  national  rulers  actuated  by  the  most  ungovernable  ambition,  it 
is  impossible  to  believe  that  they  would  employ  such  preposterous 
means  to  accomplish  their  designs. 

In  times  of  insurrection,  or  invasion,  it  would  be  natural  and 
proper,  that  the  militia  of  a  neighbouring  state  should  be  marched 
into  another,  to  resist  a  common  enemy,  or  to  guard  the  republic 
against  the  violences  of  faction  or  sedition.     This  was  frequently 


143  THE  FEDERALIST. 

the  case,  in  respect  to  the  fii'st  object,  in  the  course  of  the  late 
war ;  and  this  mutual  succour  is,  indeed,  a  principal  end  of  our 
political  association.  If  the  power  of  affording  it  be  placed  under 
the  direction  of  the  union,  there  will  be  no  danger  of  a  supine 
and  listless  inattention  to  the  dangers  of  a  neighbour,  till  its  near 
approach  had  superadded  the  incitements  of  self-preservation,  to 
the  too  feeble  impulses  of  duty  and  sympathy.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XXX. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

Concerning  l^axation. 

It  has  been  already  observed,  that  the  federal  government  ought 
to  possess  the  power  of  providing  for  the  support  of  the  national 
forces  ;  in  which  proposition  was  intended  to  be  included  the  ex- 
pense of  raising  troops,  of  building  and  equipping  fleets,  and  all 
other  expenses  in  any  wise  connected  with  military  arrangements 
and  operations.  But  these  are  not  the  only  objects  to  which  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  union,  in  respect  to  revenue,  must  necessarily 
be  empowered  to  extend.  It  must  embrace  a  provision  for  the 
support  of  the  national  civil  list ;  for  the  payment  of  the  national 
debts  contracted,  or  that  may  be  contracted  ;  and,  in  general,  for 
all  those  matters  which  will  call  for  disbursements  out  of  the  na- 
tional treasury.  The  conclusion  is,  that  there  must  be  interwoven, 
in  the  frame  of  the  government,  a  general  power  of  taxation,  in 
one  shape  or  another. 

Money  is  with  propriety  considered  as  the  vital  principle  of  the 
body  poHtic ;  as  that  which  sustains  its  life  and  motion,  and  ena- 
bles it  to  perform  its  most  essential  functions.  A  complete  power, 
therefore,  to  procure  a  regular  and  adequate  supply  of  revenue, 
as  far  as  the  resources  of  the  community  will  permit,  may  be  re- 
garded as  an  indispensable  ingredient  in  every  constitution.  From 
a  deficiency  in  this  particular,  one  of  two  evils  must  ensue  ;  either 
the  people  must  be  subjected  to  continual  plunder,  as  a  substitute 
for  a  more  eligible  mode  of  supplying  the  public  wants,  or  the 
government  must  sink  into  a  fatal  atrophy,  and  in  a  short  course 
of  time  perish. 

In  the  Ottoman  or  Turkish  empire,  the  sovereign,  though  in 
other  respects  absolute  master  of  the  lives  and  fortunes  of  his  sub- 
jects, has  no  right  to  impose  a  new  tax.  The  consequence  is,  that 
he  permits  the  bashaws  or  governors  of  provinces  to  pillage  the 
people  at  discretion  ;  and,  in  turn,  squeezes  out  of  them  the  sums 


THE  FEDERALIST.  143 

of  which  he  stands  in  need,  to  satisfy  his  own  exigencies,  and 
those  of  the  state.  In  America,  from  a  like  cause,  the  govern- 
ment of  the  union  has  gradually  dwindled  into  a  state  of  decay, 
approaching  nearly  to  annihilation.  Who  can  doubt,  that  the 
happiness  of  the  people  in  both  countries  would  be  promoted  by 
competent  authorities  in  the  proper  hands,  to  provide  the  revenues 
which  the  necessities  of  the  public  might  require  1 

The  present  confederation,  feeble  as  it  is,  intended  to  repose  in 
the  United  States  an  unlimited  power  of  providing  for  the  pecuni- 
ary wants  of  the  union.  But  proceeding  upon  an  erroneous  prin- 
ciple, it  has  been  done  in  such  a  manner  as  entirely  to  have  frus- 
trated the  intention.  Congress,  by  the  articles  which  compose 
that  compact,  (as  has  been  already  stated,)  are  authorized  to  as- 
certain and  call  for  any  sums  of  money  necessary,  in  their  judg- 
ment, to  the  service  of  the  United  States ;  and  their  requisitions, 
if  conformable  to  the  rule  of  apportionment,  are,  in  every  consti- 
tutional sense,  obligatory  upon  the  states.  These  have  no  right  to 
question  the  propriety  of  the  demand ;  no  discretion  beyond  that 
of  devising  the  ways  and  means  of  furnishing  the  sums  demand- 
ed. But  though  this  be  strictly  and  truly  the  case ;  though  the 
assumption  of  such  a  right  would  be  an  infringement  of  the  arti- 
cles of  union  ;  though  it  may  seldom  or  never  have  been  avowed- 
ly claimed ;  yet  in  practice  it  has  been  constantly  exercised  ;  and 
would  continue  to  be  so,  as  long  as  the  revenues  of  the  confedera- 
cy should  remain  dependent  on  the  intermediate  agency  of  its 
members.  What  the  consequences  of  the  system  have  been,  is 
within  the  knowledge  of  every  man,  the  least  conversant  in  our 
public  affairs,  and  has  been  abundantly  unfolded  in  different 
parts  of  these  inquiries.  It  is  this  which  has  chiefly  contributed 
to  reduce  us  to  a  situation,  that  affords  ample  cause  of  mortifica- 
tion to  ourselves,  and  of  triumph  to  our  enemies. 

What  remedy  can  there  be  for  this  situation,  but  in  a  chano-e 
of  the  system  which  has  produced  it... .in  a  change  of  the  falla- 
cious and  delusive  system  of  quotas  and  requisitions  ?  What  sub- 
stitute can  there  be  imagined  for  this  ignis  fatuus  in  finance,  but 
that  of  permitting  the  national  government  to  raise  its  own  reve- 
nues by  the  ordinary  methods  of  taxation,  authorized  in  ewety  well- 
ordered  constitution  of  civil  government  ?  Ingenious  men  may 
declaim  with  plausibility  on  any  subject  ;  but  no  iuiman  ingenuity 
can  point  out  any  other  expedient  to  rescue  us  from  the  inconve- 
niences and  embarrassments,  naturally  resulting  from  defective 
supplies  of  the  public  treasury. 

The  more  intelligent  adversaries  of  the  new  constitution  admit 


X44  THE  FEDERALIST. 

the  force  of  this  reasoning ;  but  they  qualify  their  admission  by  a 
distinction  between  what  they  call  internal  and  external  taxations. 
The  former  they  would  reserve  to  the  state  governments ;  the  lat- 
ter, which  they  explain  into  commercial  imposts,  or  rather  duties 
on  imported  articles,  they  declare  themselves  willing  to  concede 
to  the  federal  head.  This  distinction,  however,  would  violate  that 
fundamental  maxim  of  good  sense  and  sound  policy,  which  dic- 
tates that  every  power  ought  to  be  proportionate  to  its  object  ; 
and  would  still  leave  the  general  government  in  a  kind  of  tutelage 
to  the  state  governments,  inconsistent  with  every  idea  of  vigour 
or  efficiency.  Who  can  pretend  that  commercial  imposts  are,  or 
would  be,  alone  equal  to  the  present  and  future  exigencies  of  the 
union  ?  Taking  into  the  account  the  existing  debt,  foreign  and 
domestic,  upon  any  plan  of  extinguishment,  which  a  man  mod- 
erately impressed  with  the  importance  of  public  justice  and  public 
credit  could  approve,  in  addition  to  the  establishments  which  all 
parties  will  acknowledge  to  be  necessary,  we  could  not  reasonably 
flatter  ourselves,  that  this  resource  alone,  upon  the  most  improved 
scale,  would  even  suffice  for  its  present  necessities.  Its  future  ne- 
cessities admit  not  of  calculation  or  limitation ;  and  upon  the 
principle  more  than  once  adverted  to,  the  power  of  making  pro- 
vision for  them  as  they  arise  ought  to  be  equally  unconfined.  I 
believe  it  may  be  regarded  as  a  position,  warranted  by  tlie  history 
of  mankind,  that  in  the  usual  progress  of  things,  the  necessities  of 
a  nation,  in  every  stage  of  its  existence,  toill  be  found  at  least  equal  to 
its  resources. 

To  say  that  deficiencies  may  be  provided  for  by  requisitions 
upon  the  states,  is  on  the  one  hand  to  acknowledge  that  this  sys- 
tem cannot  be  depended  upon  ;  and  on  the  other  hand,  to  depend 
upon  it  for  every  thing  beyond  a  certain  limit.  Those  who  have 
carefully  attended  to  its  vices  and  deformities,  as  they  have  been 
exhibited  by  experience,  or  delineated  in  the  course  of  these 
papers,  must  feel  an  invincible  repugnancy  to  trusting  the  na- 
tional interests,  in  any  degree,  to  its  operation.  Whenever 
it  is  brought  into  activity,  its  inevitable  tendency  must  be  to 
enfeeble  the  union,  and  sow  the  seeds  of  discord  and  conten- 
tion between  the  federal  head  and  its  members,  and  between  the 
members  themselves.  Can  it  be  expected  that  the  deficiencies 
would  be  better  supplied  in  this  mode,  than  the  total  wants  of  the 
union  have  heretofore  been  supplied,  in  the  same  mode  ?  It  ought 
to  be  recollected,  that  if  less  will  be  required  from  the  states,  they 
will  have  proportiouably  less  means  to  answer  the  demand.  If 
the  opinions  of  those  who  contend  for  the  distinction  which  has 


THE  FEDERALIST.  145 

been  mentioned,  were  to  be  received  as  evidence  of  truth,  one 
would  be  led  to  conclude,  that  there  was  some  known  point  in  the 
economy  of  national  affairs,  at  which  it  would  be  safe  to  stop,  and 
to  say  :  thus  far,  the  ends  of  public  happiness  will  be  promoted  by 
supplying  the  wants  of  government,  and  all  beyond  this  is  un- 
worthy of  our  care  or  anxiety.  How  is  it  possible  that  a  govern- 
ment, half  supplied  and  always  necessitous,  can  fulfil  the  pur- 
poses of  its  institution  ;  can  provide  for  the  security,  advance  the 
prosperity,  or  support  the  reputation  of  the  commonwealth  1  How 
can  it  ever  possess  either  energy  or  stability,  dignity  or  credit, 
confidence  at  home,  or  respectability  abroad  ?  How  can  its  ad- 
ministration be  any  thing  else  than  a  succession  of  expedients 
temporizing,  impotent,  disgraceful  ?  How  will  it  be  able  to  avoid 
a  frequent  sacrifice  of  its  engagements  to  immediate  necessity  1 
How  can  it  undertake  or  execute  any  liberal  or  enlarged  plans  of 
public  good  ? 

Let  us  attend  to  what  would  be  the  effects  of  this   situation,   in 
the  very  first  war  in  which  we  should  happen  to  be  engaged.     We 
will  presume,  for  argument  sake,  that  the  revenue  arising  from 
the   import  duties  answers  the  purposes  of  a  provision   for  the 
public  debt,  and   of  a  peace   establishment   for  the   union.     Thus 
circumstanced,  a  war  breaks  out.     What  would   be   the   probable 
conduct  of  the  government   in   such  an  emergency?     Taught  by 
experience,  that  proper  dependence  could    not   be   placed  on  the 
success  of  requisitions  ;  unable  by  its  own  authority  to  lay  hold  of 
fresh  resources,  and  urged  by  considerations   of  national  danger, 
would  it  not  be  driven  to  the  expedient  of  diverting  the  funds    al- 
ready appropriated,  from  their  proper  objects,  to  the  defence  of 
the  state  1     It  is  not   easy  to  see   how  a  step  of  this   kind    could 
be  avoided ;  and  if  it  should  be  taken,  it  is  evident  that  it  would 
prove  the  destruction  of  public  credit  at  the  very  moment  that  it 
was  become  essential  to  the  public  safety.     To   imagine  at  such  a 
crisis  credit  might  be  dispensed  with,  would  be  the  extreme  of  in- 
fatuation.   In  the  modern  system  of  war,  nations  the  most  wealthy 
are  obliged  to  have  recourse  to  large  loans.     A  country  so  little  opu- 
lent as  ours,  must  feel  this  necessity   in  a  much   stronger  degree. 
But  who  would  lend  to  a  government,  that  prefaced   its  overtures 
for  bo4-rowing  by   an  act   which   demonstrated  that  no   reliance 
could  be  placed  on  the  steadiness  of  its  measures  for  paying? 
The  loans  it  might  be  able  to  procure,  would  be  as  limited  in  their 
extent,  as  burthensome  in  their  conditions.    They  would  be  made 
upon  the  same  principles  that  usurers  commonly  lend  to  bankrupt 
17 


146  THE  FEDERALIST. 

and  fraudulent  debtors. ...with  a  sparing  hand,  and  at  enormous 
premiums. 

It  may  perhaps  be  imagined  that  from  the  scantiness  of  tlie  re- 
sources of  the  country;  the  necessity  of  diverting  the  established 
funds  in  the  case  supposed,  would  exist :  though  the  national  gov- 
ernment should  possess  an  unrestrained  power  of  taxation.  But 
two  considerations  will  serve  to  quiet  all  apprehensions  on  this 
head  ;  one  is,  that  we  are  sure  the  resources  of  the  community, 
in  their  full  extent,  will  be  brought  into  activity  for  the  benefit  of 
the  union  ;  the  other  is,  that  whatever  deficiencies  there  may  be, 
can  without  difficulty  be  supplied  by  loans. 

The  power  of  creating,  by  its  own  authority,  new  funds  from 
new  objects  of  taxation,  would  enable  the  national  government  to 
borrow,  as  far  as  its  necessities  might  require.  Foreigners,  as 
well  as  the  citizens  of  America,  could  then  reasonably  repose  con- 
fidence in  its  engagements:  but  to  depend  upon  a  government, 
that  must  itself  depend  upon  thirteen  other  governments,  for  the 
means  of  fulfilling  its  contracts,  when  once  its  situation  is  clearly 
understood,  would  require  a  degree  of  credulity  not  often  to  be 
met  with  in  the  pecuniary  transactions  of  mankind,  and  little  re- 
concilable with  the  usual  sharpsightedness  of  avarice. 

Reflections  of  this  kind  may  have  trifling  weight  with  men  who 
hope  to  see  the  halcyon  scenes  of  the  poetic  or  fabulous  age 
realized  in  America ;  but  to  those  who  believe  we  are  likely  to  ex- 
perience a  common  portion  of  the  vicissitudes  and  calamities 
which  have  fallen  to  the  lot  of  other  nations,  they  must  appear  en- 
titled to  sf^rious  attention.  Such  men  must  behold  the  actual  situ- 
ation of  their  country  with  painful  solicitude,  and  deprecate  the 
evils  which  ambition  or  revenge  might,  with  too  much  facility,  in- 
flict upon  it.  FUBLIUS. 


NO.  XXXI. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued. 

In  disquisitions  of  every  kind,  there  are  certain  primary  truths, 
or  first  principles,  upon  which  all  subsequent  reasonings  must  de- 
pend. These  contain  an  internal  evidence,  which,  antecedent  to 
all  reflection  or  combination,  coniuiaiuls  the  assent  of  themind. 
Where  it  produces  not  this  eft'ect,  it  must  proceed  either  from  some 
disorder  in  the  organs  of  perception,  or  from  the  influence  of  some 


THE  FEDERALIST.  147 

strong  interest,  or  passion,  or  prejudice.  Of  tins  nature  are  the 
maxims  in  geometry,  that  the  whole  is  greater  than  its  part  ;  that 
things  equal  to  the  same,  are  equal  to  one  another ;  that  two 
straight  lines  cannot  enclose  a  space;  and  that  all  right  angles 
are  equal  to  each  other.  Of  the  same  nature,  are  these  other 
maxims  in  ethics  and  politics,  that  there  cannot  be  an  effect  with- 
out a  cause  ;  that  the  means  ought  to  be  proportioned  to  the  end ; 
that  every  power  ought  to  be  commensurate  with  its  object ;  that 
there  ought  to  be  no  limitation  of  a  power  destined  to  effect  a  pur- 
pose which  is  itself  incapable  of  limitation.  And  there  are  other 
truths  in  the  two  latter  sciences,  which,  if  they  cannot  pretend  to 
rank  in  the  class  of  axioms,  are  such  direct  inferences  from  them 
and  so  obvious  in  themselves,  and  so  agreeable  to  the  natural  and 
unsophisticated  dictates  of  common  sense,  that  they  challenge  the 
assent  of  a  sound  and  unbiassed  mind,  with  a  degree  of  force  and 
conviction  almost  equally  irresistible. 

The  objects  of  geometrical  inquiry  are  so  entirely  abstracted 
from  those  pursuits  which  stir  up  and  put  in  motion  the  unruly 
passions  of  the  human  heart,  that  mankind,  without  difficulty, 
adopt  not  only  the  more  simple  theorems  of  the  science,  but  even 
those  abstruse  paradoxes  which,  however  they  may  appear  sus- 
ceptible of  demonstration,  are  at  variance  with  the  natural  con- 
ceptions which  the  mind,  without  the  aid  of  philosophy,  would  be 
led  to  entertain  upon  the  subject.  The  infinite  divisibility  of 
matter,  or,  in  other  words,  the  infinite  divisibility  of  a  finite 
thing,  extending  even  to  the  minutest  atom,  is  a  point  agreed 
among  geometricians ;  though  not  less  incomprehensible  to  com- 
mon sense,  than  any  of  those  mysteries  in  religion,  against  which 
the  batteries  of  infidelity  have  been  so  industriously  levelled. 

But  in  the  sciences  of  morals  and  politics,  men  are  found  far 
less  tractable.  To  a  certain  degree,  it  is  right  and  useful  that  this 
should  be  the  case.  Caution  and  investigation  are  a  necessary 
armour  against  errour  and  imposition.  But  this  untractableness 
may  be  carried  too  far,  and  may  degenerate  into  obstinacy,  per- 
verseness,  or  disingenuity.  Though  it  cannot  be  pretended,  that 
the  principles  of  moral  and  political  knowledge  have,  in  general, 
the  same  degree  of  certainty  with  those  of  the  mathematics  ;  yet 
they  have  much  better  claims  in  this  respect,  than,  to  judge  from 
the  conduct  of  men  in  particular  situations,  we  should  be  disposed 
to  allow  them.  The  obscurity  is  much  oftener  in  the  passions  and 
prejudices  of  the  reasoner,  than  in  the  subject.  Men,  upon  too 
many  occasions,  do  not  give  their  own  understandings  fair  play  ; 


148  THE  FEDERALIST. 

but  yielding  to  some  untoward  bias,  they  entangle  themselves  in 
words,  and  confound  themselves  in  subtleties. 

IIow  else  could  it  happen,  (if  we  admit  the  objectors  to  be  sin- 
cere in  their  opposition,)  that  positions  so  clear  as  those  which 
manifest  the  necessity  of  a  general  power  of  taxation  in  the  gov- 
ernment of  the  union,  should  have  to  encounter  any  adversaries 
among  men  of  discernment  1  Though  these  positions  have  been 
elsewhere  fully  stated,  they  will  perhaps  not  be  improperly  reca- 
pitulated in  this  place,  as  introductory  to  an  examination  of  what 
may  have  been  offered  by  way  of  objection  to  them.  They  are  in 
substance  as  follow  : 

A  government  ought  to  contain  in  itself  every  power  requisite 
to  the  full  accomplishment  of  the  objects  committed  to  its  care, 
and  the  complete  execution  of  the  trusts  for  which  it  is  responsi- 
ble ;  free  from  every  other  control,  but  a  regard  to  the  public 
good,  and  to  the  sense  of  the  people. 

As  the  duties  of  superintending  the  national  defence,  and  of 
securing  the  public  peace  against  foreign  or  domestic  violence, 
involve  a  provision  for  casualties  and  dangers,  to  which  no  possi- 
ble limits  can  be  assigned,  the  power  of  making  that  provision 
ought  to  know  no  other  bounds  than  the  exigencies  of  the  nation, 
and  the  resources  of  the  community. 

As  revenue  is  the  essential  engine  by  which  the  means  of  an- 
swering the  national  exigencies  must  be  procured,  the  power  of 
procuring  that  article  in  its  full  extent  must  necessarily  be  compre- 
hended in  that  of  providing  for  those  exigencies. 

As  theory  and  practice  conspire  to  prove,  that  the  power  of  pro- 
curing revenue  is  unavailing,  when  exercised  over  the  states  in 
their  collective  capacities,  the  federal  government  must  of  necessi- 
ty be  invested  with  an  unqualified  power  of  taxation  in  the  or- 
dinary modes. 

Did  not  experience  evince  the  contrary,  it  would  be  natural  to 
conclude,  that  the  propriety  of  a  general  power  of  taxation  in  the 
national  government  might  safely  be  permitted  to  rest  on  the  evi- 
dence of  these  propositions,  unassisted  by  any  additional  argu- 
ments or  illustrations^  But  we  find,  in  fact,  that  the  antagonists 
of  the  proposed  constitution,  so  far  from  acquiescing  in  their  just- 
ness or  truth,  seem  to  make  their  principal  and  most  zealous  effort 
against  this  part  of  the  plan.  It  may  therefore  be  satisfactory  to 
analyze  the  arguments  with  which  they  combat  it. 

Those  of  them,  which  have  been  most  laboured  with  that  view, 
Beem  in  substance  to  amount  to  this  :  "  It  is  not  true,  because  the 
•'exigencies  of  the  union  may  not  be  susceptible  of  limitation,  that 


THE  FEDERALIST.  149 

"  its  power  of  laying  taxes  ought  to  be  unconfined.  Revenues, 
"  is  as  requisite  to  the  purposes  of  the  local  administrations,  as  to 
"  those  of  the  union  ;  and  the  former  are  at  least  of  equal  impor- 
,"  tance  with  the  latter,  to  the  happiness  of  the  people.  It  is  there- 
"  fore  as  necessary,  that  the  state  governments  should  be  able  to 
"  command  the  means  of  supplying  their  wants,  as  that  the  na- 
"  tional  government  should  possess  the  like  faculty,  in  respect  to 
"the  wants  of  the  union.  But  an  indefinite  power  of  taxation  in 
"  the  latter  might,  and  probably  would,  in  time,  deprive  the  former 
"  of  the  means  of  providing  for  their  own  necessities ;  and  would 
"subject  them  entirely  to  the  mercy  of  the  national  legislature. 
"As  the  laws  of  the  union  are  to  become  the  supreme  law  of  the 
"  land  ;  as  it  is  to  have  power  to  pass  all  laws  that  may  be  neces- 
"SARY  for  carrying  into  execution  the  authorities  with  which  it  is 
"  proposed  to  vest  it  ;  the  national  government  might  at  any  time 
"  abolish  the  taxes  imposed  for  state  objects,  upon  the  pretence  of 
"  an  interference  with  its  own.  It  might  allege  a  necessity  of  do- 
"  ing  this,  in  order  to  give  efficacy  to  the  national  revenues  :  and 
"  thus  all  the  resources  of  taxation  might,  by  degrees,  become  the 
"  subjects  of  federal  monopoly,  to  the  entire  exclusion  and  destruc- 
"  tion  of  the  state  governments." 

This  mode  of  reasoning  appears  sometimes  to  turn  upon  the 
supposition  of  usurpation  in  the  national  government:  at  other 
times,  it  seems  to  be  designed  only  as  a  deduction  from  the  con- 
stitutional operation  of  its  intended  powers.  It  is  only  in  the  lat- 
ter light,  that  it  can  be  admitted  to  have  any  pretensions  to  fair- 
ness. The  moment  we  launch  into  conjectures  about  the  usurpa- 
tions of  the  federal  government,  we  get  into  an  unfathomable 
abyss,  and  fairly  put  ourselves  out  of  the  reach  of  all  reasoning. 
Imagination  may  range  at  pleasure,  till  it  gets  bewildered  amidst 
the  labyrinths  of  an  enchanted  castle,  and  knows  not,  on  which 
side  to  turn,  to  escape  from  the  apparitions  which  itself  has  raised. 
Whatever  may  be  the  limits  or  modifications  of  the  powers  of 
the  union,  it  is  easy  to  imagine  an  endless  train  of  possible  dan- 
gers ;  and  by  indulging  an  excess  of  jealousy  and  timidity,  we 
may  bring  ourselves  to  a  state  of  absolute  scepticism  and  irresolu- 
tion. I  repeat  here,  what  I  have  observed  in  substance  in  another 
place,  that  all  observations,  founded  upon  the  danger  of  usurpa- 
tion, ought  to  be  referred  to  the  composition  and  structure  of  the 
government,  not  to  the  nature  and  extent  of  its  powers.  The  state 
governments,  by  their  original  constitutions,  are  invested  with 
complete  sovereignty.  In  what  does  our  security  consist  against 
usurpations  from  that  quarter  ?     Doubtless  in  the  manner  of  their 


150  THE  FEDERALIST. 

formation,  and  in  a  due  dependence  of  those  who  are  to  adminis- 
ter tliem  upon  the  people.  If  the  proposed  construction  of  the 
federal  •'■ovcrnment  be  found,  upon  an  impartial  examination  of  it, 
to  be  such  as  to  aftbrd,  to  a  proper  extent,  the  same  species  of  se- 
curity, all  apprehensions  on  the  score  of  usurpation  ought  to  be 
discarded. 

It  should  not  be  forgotten,  that  a  disposition  in  the  state  govern- 
ments to  encroach  upon  the  rights  of  the  union,  is  quite  as  proba- 
ble as  a  disposition  in  the  union  to  encroach  upon  the  rights  of  the 
state  governments.  What  side  would  be  likely  to  prevail  in  such 
a  conflict,  must  depend  on  the  means  which  the  contending  parties 
could  employ,  towards  ensuring  success.  As  in  republics,  strength 
is  always  on  the  side  of  the  people  ;  and  as  there  are  weighty  rea- 
sons to  induce  a  belief,  that  the  state  governments  will  commonly 
possess  most  influence  over  them,  the  natural  conclusion  is,  that 
such  contests  will  be  most  apt  to  end  to  the  disadvantage  of  the 
union  ;  and  that  there  is  greater  probability  of  encroachments  by 
the  members  upon  the  federal  head,  than  by  the  federal  head  upon 
the  members.  But  it  is  evident,  that  all  conjectures  of  this  kind 
must  be  extremely  vague  and  fallible  ;  and  that  it  is  by  far  the 
safest  course  to  lay  them  altogether  aside  ;  and  to  confine  our  at- 
tention wholly  to  the  nature  and  extent  of  the  powers,  as  they  are 
delineated  in  the  constitution.  Every  thing  beyond  this  must  be 
left  to  the  prudence  and  firmness  of  the  people  ;  who,  as  they  will 
hold  the  scales  in  their  own  hands,  it  is  to  be  hoped,  will  always 
take  care  to  preserve  the  constitutional  equilibrium  between  the 
general  and  the  state  governments.  Upon  this  ground,  which  is 
evidently  the  true  one,  it  will  not  be  difliicult  to  obviate  the  objec- 
tions, which  have  been  made  to  an  indefinite  power  of  taxation  in 
the  United  States.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XXXII. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued. 

Although  I  am  of  opinion  that  there  would  be  no  real  danger 
of  the  consequences  to  the  state  governments,  which  seem  to  be 
apprehended  from  a  power  in  the  union  to  control  them  in  the 
levies  of  money  ;  because  I  am  persuaded  that  the  sense  of  the 
people,  the  extreme  hazard  of  provoking  the  resentments  of  the 
state  governments,  and  a  conviction  of  the  utility  and  necessity  of 


THE  FEDERALIST.  151 

local  administrations,  for  local  purposes,  would  be  a  complete  bar- 
rier against  the  oppressive  use  of  such  a  power  :  yet  I  am  willing 
here  to  allow,  in  its  full  extent,  the  justness  of  the  reasoning, 
which  requires,  that  the  individual  states  should  possess  an  inde- 
pendent and  uncontrolable  authority  to  raise  their  own  revenues 
for  the  supply  of  their  own  wants.  And  making  this  concession  I 
affirm,  that  (with  the  sole  exception  of  duties  on  imports  and  ex- 
ports) they  would,  under  the  plan  of  the  convention,  retain  that 
authority  in  the  most  absolute  and  unqualified  sense  ;  and  that  an 
attempt  on  the  part  of  the  national  government  to  abridge  them 
in  the  exercise  of  it,  would  be  a  violent  assumption  of  power,  un- 
warranted by  any  article  or  clause  of  its  constitution. 

An  entire  consolidation  of  the  states  into  one  complete  national 
sovereignty,  would  imply  an  entire  subordination  of  the  parts; 
and  whatever  powers  might  remain  in  them,  would  be  altogether 
dependent  on  the  general  will.  But  as  the  plan  of  the  convention 
aims  only  at  a  partial  union  or  consfdidation,  the  state  govern- 
ments would  clearly  retain  all  the  rights  of  sovereignty  which  they 
before  had,  and  which  were  not,  by  that  act,  exclusively  delegated 
to  the  United  States.  This  exclusive  delegation,  or  rather  this 
alienation  of  state  sovereignty,  would  only  exist  in  three  cases  ; 
where  the  constitution  in  express  terms  granted  an  exclusive  au- 
thority to  the  union  ;  where  it  granted,  in  one  instance,  an  au- 
thority to  the  union,  and  in  another,  prohibited  the  states  from  ex- 
ercising the  like  authority  ;  and  where  it  granted  an  authority 
to  the  union,  to  which  a  similar  authority  in  the  states  would  be 
absolutely  and  totally  contradictory  and  repugnant.  I  use  these 
terms  to  distinguish  this  last  case  from  another  which  might  ap- 
pear to  resemble  it ;  but  which  would,  in  fact,  be  essentially  dif- 
ferent :  I  mean  where  the  exercise  of  a  concurrent  jurisdiction, 
might  be  productive  of  occasional  interferences  in  the  policy  of 
any  branch  of  administration,  but  would  not  imply  any  direct  con- 
tradiction or  repugnancy  in  point  of  constitutional  authority. 
These  three  cases  of  exclusive  jurisdiction  in  the  federal  govern- 
ment, may  be  exemplified  by  the  following  instances  :  the  last 
clause  but  one  in  the  eighth  section  of  the  first  article,  provides 
expressly,  that  congress  shall  exercise  "  exclusive  legislation''^  over 
the  district  to  be  appropriated  as  the  seat  of  government.  This 
answers  to  the  first  case.  The  first  clause  of  the  same  section 
empowers  congress  "  to  lay  and  collect  taxes,  duties,  imposts,  and 
"  excises ;"  and  the  second  clause  of  the  tenth  section  of  the  same 
article  declares,  that  "  no  state  shall,  without  the  consent  of  con- 
"  gress,  lay  any  imposts  or  duties  on  imports  or  exports^  except   for 


152  THE  FEDERALIST. 

"  the  purpose  of  executing  its  inspection  laws."  Hence  would 
result  an  exclusive  power  in  the  union  to  lay  duties  on  imports 
and  exi)orts,  with  the  particular  exception  mentioned  ;  but  this 
power  is  abridged  by  another  clause,  which  declares,  that  no  tax 
or  duty  shall  be  laid  on  articles  exported  from  any  state  :  in  con- 
sequence of  which  qualification,  it  now  only  extends  to  the  duties 
on  imjwrts.  This  answers  to  the  second  case.  The  third  will  be 
found  in  that  clause  which  declares,  that  congress  sliall  have  pow- 
er "  to  establish  an  uniform  rule  of  naturalization  throtjghout 
"  the  United  States."  This  must  necessarily  be  exclusive:  be- 
cause if  each  state  had  power  to  prescribe  a  distinct  rule,  there 
could  be  no  uniform  rule. 

A  case  which  may  perhaps  be  thought  to  resemble  the  latter, 
but  which  is  in  fact  widely  different,  affects  the  question  immedi- 
ately under  consideration.  I  mean  the  power  of  imposing  taxes 
on  all  articles  other  than  exports  and  imports.  This,  I  contend, 
is  manifestly  a  concurrent  and  coequal  authority  in  the  United 
States  and  in  the  individual  states.  There  is  plainly  no  expression 
in  the  granting  clause,  which  makes  that  power  exclusive  in  the 
union.  There  is  no  independent  clause  or  sentence  which  prohib- 
its the  states  from  exercising  it.  So  far  is  this  from  being  the 
case,  that  a  plain  and  conclusive  argument  to  the  contrary  is  de- 
ducible,  from  the  restraint  laid  upon  the  states  in  relation  to  duties 
on  imports  and  exports;  This  restriction  implies  an  admission, 
that  if  it  were  not  inserted,  the  states  would  possess  the  power  it 
excludes  ;  and  it  implies  a  further  admission,  that  as  to  all  other 
taxes,  the  authority  of  the  states  remains  undiminished.  In  any 
other  view  it  would  be  both  unnecessary  and  dangerous.  It  would 
be  unnecessary,  because  if  the  grant  to  the  union  of  the  power  of 
laying  such  duties  implied  the  exclusion  of  the  states,  or  even 
their  subordination  in  this  particular,  there  could  be  no  need  of 
such  a  restriction  :  it  would  be  dangerous,  because  the  introduc- 
tion of  it  leads  directly  to  the  conclusion  which  has  been  mention- 
ed, and  which,  if  the  reasoning  of  the  objectors  be  just,  could  not 
have  been  intended  ;  I  mean  that  the  states,  in  all  cases  to  which 
the  restriction  did  not  apply,  would  have  a  concurrent  power  of 
taxation  with  the  union.  The  restriction  in  question  amounts  to 
what  lawyers  call  a  negative  pregnant  ;  that  is,  a  negation  of 
one  thing,  and  an  affirmance  of  another :  a  negation  of  the  author- 
ity of  the  states  to  impose  taxes  on  imports  and  exports,  and  an 
affirmance  of  their  authority  to  impose  them  on  all  other  articles. 
It  would  be  mere  sophistry  to  argue  that  it  was  meant  to  exclude 
them  absolutely  from  the  imposition  of  taxes  of  the  former  kind, 


THE  FEDERALIST.  153 

and  to  leave  tliem  at  liberty  to  lay  others  subject  to  the  control  of 
the  national  legislature.  The  restraining  or  prohibitory  clause 
only  says,  that  they  shall  not,  wit/ioi/t  the  consent  of  congress,  lay 
such  duties  ;  and  if  we  are  to  understand  this  in  the  sense  last 
mentioned,  the  constitution  would  then  be  made  to  introduce  a 
formal  provision,  for  the  sake  of  a  very  absurd  conclusion  ;  which 
is,  that  the  states,  tcith  the  consent  of  the  national  legislature,  might 
tax  imports  and  exj)orts  ;  and  that  they  might  tax  every  other  arti- 
cle, unless  controlcd  by  tlie  same  body.  H  this  was  the  intention, 
why  was  it  not  left,  in  tlie  first  instance,  to  what  is  alleged  to  be 
the  natural  operation  of  the  original  clause,  conferring  the  gene- 
ral power  of  taxation  upon  the  union  ?  It  is  evident  that  this  could 
not  have  been  the  intention,  and  that  it  will  not  bear  a  construc- 
tion of  the  kind. 

As  to  a  supposition  of  repugnancy  between  the  power  of  tax- 
ation in  the  states  and  in  the  union,  it  cannot  be  supported  in  that 
sense  which  would  be  requisite  to  work  an  exclusion  of  the  states. 
It  is  indeed  possible  that  a  tax  might  be  laid  on  a  particular  ar- 
ticle by  a  state,  which  might  render  it  inexpedient  that  a  further 
tax  should  be  laid  on  the  same  article  by  the  union  ;  but  it  would 
not  imply  a  constitutional  inability  to  impose  a  further  tax.  The 
quantity  of  the  imposition,  the  expediency  or  inexpediency  of  an 
increase  on  either  side,  would  be  mutually  questions  of  prudence  ; 
but  there  would  be  involved  no  direct  contradiction  of  power. 
The  particular  policy  of  the  national  and  of  the  state  system  of 
finance  might  now  and  then  not  exactly  coincide,  and  might  re- 
quire reciprocal  forbearances.  It  is  not  however  a  mere  possi- 
bility of  inconvenience  in  the  exercise  of  powers,  but  an  immedi- 
ate constitutional  repugnancy,  that  can  by  implication  alienate 
and  extinguish  a  preexisting  right  of  sovereignty. 

The  necessity  of  a  concurrent  jurisdiction  in  certain  cases,  re- 
sults from  the  division  of  the  sovereign  power  ;  and  the  rule  that 
all  authorities,  of  which  the  states  are  not  explicitly  divested  in 
favour  of  the  union,  remain  with  them  in  full  vigour,  is  not  only 
a  theoretical  consequence  of  that  division,  but  is  clearly  admit- 
ted by  the  whole  tenour  of  the  instrument  which  contains  the  arti- 
cles of  the  proposed  constitution.  We  there  find,  that  notwith- 
standing the  affirmative  grants  of  general  authorities,  there  has 
been  the  most  pointed  care  in  those  cases  where  it  was  deemed 
improper  that  the  like  authorities  should  reside  in  the  states,  to  in- 
sert negative  clauses  prohibiting  the  exercise  of  them  by  the  states. 
The  tenth  section  of  the  first  article  consists  altogether  of  such 
provisions.  This  circumstance  is  a  clear  indication  of  the  sense 
18 


454  THE  FEDERALIST. 

of  the  convention,  and  furnishes  a  rule  of  interpretation  out  of 
the  body  of  the  act,  wliich  justifies  the  position  I  have  advanced, 
and  refutes  every  hypothesis  to  the  contrary.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XXXIII. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued. 

The  residue  of  the  argument  against  the  provisions  of  the  con- 
stitution, in  respect  to  taxation,  is  ingrafted  upon  the  following 
clauses  :  The  last  clause  of  the  eighth  section  of  the  first  article, 
authorizes  the  national  legislature  "to  make  all  laws  which  shall 
"  be  necessary  and  proper,  for  carrying  into  execution  the  poioers 
"by  that  constitution  vested  in  the  government  of  the  United 
"  States,  or  in  any  department  or  officer  thereof;"  and  the  second 
clause  of  the  sixth  article  declares,  that  "  the  constitution  and 
"  the  laws  of  the  United  States  made  in  pursuance  thereof,  and  the 
"treaties  made  by  their  authority,  shall  be  the  siqtreme  law  of  the 
"  land ;  any  thing  in  the  constitution  or  laws  of  any  state  to  the 
"  contrary  notwithstanding." 

These  two  clauses  have  been  the  sources  of  much  virulent  in- 
vective, and  petulant  declamation,  against  the   proposed   constitu- 
tion.    They  have  been  held  up  to  the  people  in  all  the   exaggerat- 
ed   colours   of  misrepresentation  ;  as   the   pernicious   engines  by 
which  their  local  governments  were  to  be  destroyed,  and  their  lib- 
erties exterminated  ;  as  the  hideous  monster  whose  devouring  jaws 
would  spare  neither  sex  nor  age,  nor  high  nor  low,  nor  sacred  nor 
profane  ;  and  yet,  strange  as  it  may  appear,  after  all  this  clamour, 
to  those  who  may  not  have  happened  to  contemplate   them  in  the 
same  light,  it  may  be  affirmed   with  perfect  confidence,  that  the 
constitutional  operation  of  the  intended  government  would  be  pre- 
cisely the  same,  if  these   clauses  were   entirely   obliterated,   as  if 
they  were  repeated  in  every  article.     They  are   only  declaratory 
of  a  truth,  which  would  have  resulted  by  necessary   and  unavoid- 
able implication  from  the  very  act  of  constituting  a  federal  govern- 
ment, and  vesting  it  with   certain   specified  powers.     This  is    so 
clear  a  proposition,  that  moderation  itself   can   scarcely   listen   to 
the  railings  which  have  been  so  copiously  vented  against  this   part 
of  the  plan,  without  emotions  that  disturb  its  equanimity. 

What  is  a  power,  but  the  ability  or  faculty   of    doing  a  thing  1 
What  is  the  ability  to  do  a  thing,  but  the  power  of  employing  the 


THE  FEDERALIST.  165 

means  necessary  to  its  execution  ?  What  is  a  legislative  power, 
but  a  power  of  making  laws  1  Wliat  are  the  means  to  execute  a 
LEGISLATIVE  powcr,  but  LAWS?  Wliat  is  the  power  of  laying  and 
collecting  taxes,  but  a  legislative  poiver,  or  a  power  of  making  laws, 
to  lay  and  collect  taxes  1  What  are  tiie  proper  means  of  execut- 
ing such  a  power,  but  necessary  and  proper  laws  ] 

This  simple  train  of  inquiry  furnishes  us  at  once  with  a  test  of 
the  true  nature  of  the  clause  complained  of.  It  conducts  us  to 
this  palpable  trulli,  that  a  power  to  lay  and  collect  taxes,  must  be 
a  power  to  pass  all  laws  necessary  and  proper  for  the  execution  of 
that  power  :  and  what  does  the  unfortunate  and  calumniated  pro- 
vision in  question  do,  more  than  declare  the  same  truth  ;  to  wit, 
that  the  national  legislature,  to  whom  the  power  of  laying  and 
collecting  taxes  had  been  previously  given,  might,  in  the  execution 
of  that  power,  pass  all  laws  necessary  and  proper  to  carry  it  into 
effect  ?  I  have  applied  these  observations  thus  particularly  to  the 
power  of  taxation  ;  because  it  is  the  immediate  subject  under  con- 
sideration, and  because  it  is  the  most  important  of  the  authorities 
proposed  to  be  conferred  upon  the  union.  But  the  same  process 
will  lead  to  the  same  result,  in  relation  to  all  other  powers  declar- 
ed in  the  constitution.  And  it  is  expressly  to  execute  these  pow- 
ers, that  the  sweeping  clause,  as  it  has  been  affectedly  called,  au- 
thorizes the  national  legislature  to  pass  all  necessary  and  proper 
laws.  If  there  be  any  thing  exceptionable,  it  must  be  sought  for 
in  the  specific  powers,  upon  which  this  general  declaration  is  pre- 
dicated. The  declaration  itself,  though  it  may  be  chargeable  with 
tautology  or  redundancy,  is  at  least  perfectly  harmless. 

But  suspiciOiV  may  ask,  why  then  was  it  introduced  ?  The  an- 
swer is,  that  it  could  only  have  been  done  for  greater  caution,  and 
to  guard  against  all  cavilling  refinements  in  those  who  might  here- 
after feel  a  disposition  to  curtail  and  evade  the  legitimate  authori- 
ties of  tljie  union.  The  convention  probably  foresaw,  what  it  has 
been  a  principal  aim  of  these  papers  to  inculcate,  that  the  danger 
which  nhost  threatens  our  political  welfare  is,  that  the  state  gov- 
ernmenits  will  finally  sap  the  foundations  of  the  union  ;  and  might 
therefcre  think  it  necessary,  in  so  cardinal  a  point,  to  leave  noth- 
ing to  construction.  Whatever  may  have  been  the  inducement  to 
it,  thei  wisdom  of  the  precaution  is  evident  from  the  cry  which  has 
been  raised  against  it ;  as  that  very  cry  betrays  a  disposition  to 
q'tstion  the  great  and  essential  truth  which  it  is  manifestly  the 
ol.ject  of  that  provision  to  declare. 

'  But  it  may  be  again  asked,  who  is  to  judge  of  the  necessity  and 
'propriety  of  the  laws  to  be  passed  for  executing  the  powers  of  the 


156  THE  FEDERALIST. 

union  ?  I  answer,  first,  that  this  question  arises  as  well  and  as 
fully  upon  the  simple  grant  of  those  powers,  as  upon  the  declara- 
tory clause  :  and  I  answer,  in  the  sec(»nd  place,  that  the  national 
government,  like  every  other,  must  judge,  in  the  first  instance,  of 
tlie  proper  exercise  of  its  powers  ;  and  its  constituents  in  the  last. 
If  the  federal  government  should  overpass  the  just  bounds  of  its 
authority,  and  make  a  tyrannical  use  of  its  powers;  the  people, 
whose  creature  it  is,  must  appeal  to  the  standard  they  have  form- 
ed, and  take  such  measures  to  redress  the  injury  done  to  the  con- 
stitution, as  the  exigency  may  suggest  and  prudence  justify.  The 
propriety  of  a  law,  in  a  constitutional  light,  must  always  be  de- 
termined by  the  nature  of  the  powers  upon  which  it  is  founded. 
Suppose,  by  some  forced  construction  of  its  authority,  (which  in- 
deed cannot  easily  be  imagined,)  the  federal  legislature  should  at- 
tempt to  vary  the  law  of  descent  in  any  state  ;  would  it  not  be  ev- 
ident, that  in  making  such  an  attempt,  it  had  exceeded  its  juris- 
diction, and  infringed  upon  that  of  the  state  ?  Suppose,  again, 
that  upon  the  pretence  of  an  interference  with  its  revenues,  it 
should  undertake  to  abrogate  a  land  tax  imposed  by  the  authority 
of  a  state;  would  it  not  be  equally  evident,  that  this  was  an  inva- 
sion of  that  concurrent  jurisdiction  in  respect  to  this  species  of 
tax,  which  the  constitution  plainly  supposes  to  exist  in  the  state 
governments  ?  If  there  ever  should  be  a  doubt  on  this  head,  the 
credit  of  it  will  be  entirely  due  to  those  reasoners,  who,  in  the  im- 
prudent zeal  of  their  animosity  to  the  plan  of  the  conventior, 
have  laboured  to  envelope  it  in  a  cloud,  calculated  to  obscure  the 
plainest  and  simplest  truths. 

But  it  is  said,  that  the  laws  of  the  union  are  to  be  the  siip}-cmc 
law  of  the  land.  What  inference  can  be  drawn  from  this,  or 
what  would  they  amount  to,  if  they  were  not  to  be  supreme  ?  It 
is  evident  they  would  amount  to  nothing.  A  law%  by  the  very 
meaning  of  the  term,  includes  supremacy.  It  is  a  rule,  which 
those  to  whom  it  is  prescribed  are  bound  to  observe.  This  results 
from  every  political  associatitm.  If  individuals  enter  into  a  state 
of  society  the  laws  of  that  society,  must  be  the  supreme  regulator 
of  their  conduct.  If  a  number  of  political  societies  enter  into  a 
larger  political  society,  the  laws  which  the  latter  may  enact,  pur- 
suant to  the  powers  entrusted  to  it  by  its  constitution,  must  neces- 
sarily be  supreme  over  those  societies,  and  the  individuals  of  w  horn 
they  are  composed.  It  would  otherwise  be  a  mere  treaty,  depf  a^ 
dent  on  tlie  good  faith  of  the  parties,  and  not  a  government'^ 
which  is  only  another  word  for  political  power  ano  supremacv. 
But  it  will  not  follow  from   this  doctrine,  that  acts  of  the  larger 


THE  FEDERALIST.  157 

society,  which  are  not  imrmant  to  its  constitutional  powers,  but 
which  are  invasions  of  the  residuary  autliorities  of  the  smaller 
societies,  will  become  the  supreme  hiw  of  the  hind.  These  will 
be  merely  acts  of  usurpation,  and  will  deserve  to  be  treated  as 
such.  Hence  we  perceive,  that  the  clause  which  declares  the  su- 
premacy of  the  laws  of  the  union,  like  the  one  we  have  just  before 
considered,  only  declares  a  truth,  which  flows  immediately  and 
necessarily  from  the  institution  of  a  federal  government.  It  will 
not,  I  presume,  have  escaped  observation,  that  it  expressly  confines 
this  supremacy  to  laws  made  pursuant  to  the  constitution ;  which 
I  mention  merely  as  an  instance  of  caution  in  the  convention  ; 
since  that  limitation  would  have  been  to  be  understood,  though 
it  had  not  been  expressed. 

Though  a  law,  therefore,  laying  a  tax  for  the  use  of  the  United 
States  would  be  supreme  in  its  nature,  and  could  not  legally  be 
opposed  or  controlled  ;  yet  a  law  abrogating  or  preventing  the 
collection  of  a  tax  laid  by  the  authority  of  a  state,  (unless  upon 
imports  and  exports,)  would  not  be  the  supreme  law  of  the  land, 
but  an  usurpation  of  a  power  not  granted  by  the  constitution.  As 
far  as  an  improper  accumulation  of  taxes,  on  the  same  object, 
might  tend  to  render  the  collection  diflicult  or  precarious,  this 
would  be  a  mutual  inconvenience,  not  arising  from  any  superiority 
or  defect  of  power  on  either  side,  but  from  an  injudicious  exercise 
of  power  by  one  or  the  other,  in  a  manner  equally  disadvantageous 
to  both.  It  is  to  be  hoped  and  presumed,  however,  that  mutual 
interest  would  dictate  a  concert  in  this  respect,  which  tvould  avoid 
any  material  inconvenience.  The  inference  from  the  whole  is.... 
that  the  individual  states  would,  under  the  proposed  constitution, 
retain  an  independent  and  uncontrolable  authority  to  raise  revenue 
to  any  extent  of  which  they  may  stand  in  need,  by  every  kind  of 
taxation,  except  duties  on  imports  and  exports.  It  will  be  shown 
in  the  next  paper,  that  this  concurrent  jurisdiction  in  the  article  of 
taxation,  was  the  only  admissible  substitute  for  an  entire  subor- 
dination, in  respect  to  this  branch  of  power,  of  state  authority  to 
that  of  the  union.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XXXIV. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued. 
I  FLATTER  myself  it  has  been  clearly  shown  in  my  last  number, 
that  the  particular  states,  under  the  proposed   constitution,   would 
have  COEQUAL  authority  witA  the  union  in  the  article  of  revenue, 


158  THE  FEDERALIST. 

except  as  to  duties  on  imports.  As  this  leaves  open  to  the  states 
far  the  "reatcst  part  of  the  resources  of  the  community,  there  can 
be  no  colour  for  the  assertion,  that  they  would  not  possess  means 
as  abundant  as  could  be  d^-sired,  for  the  supply  of  their  own  wants, 
independent  of  all  external  control.  Tiiat  the  field  is  sufticiently 
wide,  will  more  fully  appear,  when  we  come  to  develope  the  incon- 
siderable share  of  the  public  expenses,  for  which  it  will  fall  to  the 
lot  of  the  state  governments  to  provide. 

To  argue  upon  abstract  principles,  that  this  coordinate  authority 
cannot  exist,  would  be  to  set  up  theory  and  supposition  against  fact 
and  reality.  However  proper  such  reasonings  might  be,  to  show 
that  a  thing  ought  not  to  exist,  they  are  wholly  to  be  rejected,  when 
they  are  made  use  of  to  prove  that  it  does  not  exist,  contrary  to 
the  evidence  of  the  fiict  itself.  It  is  well  known,  that  in  the  Ro- 
man republic,  the  legislative  authority  in  the  last  resort  resided 
for  ages  in  two  different  political  bodies....not  as  branches  of  the 
same  legislature,  but  as  distinct  and  independent  legislatures  ;  in 
each  of  which  an  opi)osite  interest  prevailed:  in  one,  the  pa- 
trician ;  in  the  other,  the  plebeian.  Many  arguments  might  have 
been  adduced,  to  prove  the  unfitness  of  two  such  seemingly  con- 
tradictory authorities,  each  having  power  to  annul  or  repeal  the 
acts  of  the  other.  But  a  man  would  have  been  regarded  as  fran- 
tic, who  should  have  attempted  at  Rome  to  disprove  their  exist- 
ence. It  will  readily  be  understood,  that  I  allude  to  the  comitia 
CENTURiATA  and  the  comitia  tributia.  The  former,  in  which  the 
people  voted  by  centuries,  was  so  arranged  as  to  give  a  superiority 
to  the  patrician  interest.  In  the  latter,  in  which  numbers  prevail- 
ed, the  plebeian  interest  had  an  entire  predominancy.  And  yet 
these  two  legislatures  coexisted  for  ages,  and  the  Roman  republic 
attained  to  the  pinnacle  of  human  greatness. 

In  the  case  particularly  under  consideration,  there  is  no  such 
contradiction  as  appears  in  the  example  cited:  there  is  no  power 
on  either  side  to  annul  the  acts  of  the  other.  And  in  practice, 
there  is  little  reason  to  apprehend  any  inconvenience  ;  because,  in 
a  short  course  of  time,  the  wants  of  the  states  will  naturally  re- 
duce themselves  within  a  very  narrow  compass  ;  and  in  the  interim, 
the  United  States  will,  in  all  probability,  find  it  convenient  to  ab- 
stain wholly  from  those  objects  to  which  the  particular  states  would 
be  inclined  to  resort. 

To  form  a  more  precise  judgment  of  the  true  merits  of  this 
question,  it  will  be  well  to  advert  to  the  proportion  between  the 
objects  that  will  require  a  federal  provision  in  respect  to  revenue, 
and  those  which  will  require  a  state  provision.     We  she.li  discover 


THE  FEDERALIST.  159 

that  the  former  are  altogether  unlimited  ;  and  that  the  latter  are 
circumscribed  within  very  moderate  bounds.  In  pursuing  this  in- 
quiry, we  must  bear  in  mind,  that  we  are  not  to  confine  our  view 
to  the  present  period,  but  to  hmk  forward  to  remote  futurity.  Con- 
stitutions of  civil  government  are  not  to  be  framed  upon  a  calcu- 
lation of  existing  exigencies  ;  but  upon  a  combination  of  these, 
with  the  probable  exigencies  of  ages,  according  to  the  natural  and 
tried  course  of  human  affairs.  Nothing,  therefore,  can  be  more 
fallacious,  than  to  infer  the  extent  of  any  power  proper  to  be  lodg- 
ed in  the  national  government,  from  an  estimate  of  its  immediate 
necessities.  There  ought  to  be  a  capacity  to  provide  for  future 
contingencies,  as  they  may  happen ;  and  as  these  are  illimitable 
in  their  nature,  so  it  is  impossible  safely  to  limit  that  capacity.  It 
is  true,  perhaps,  that  a  computation  might  be  made,  with  sufficient 
accuracy  to  answer  the  purpose,  of  the  quantity  of  revenue  requi- 
site to  discharge  the  subsisting  engagements  of  the  union,  and  to 
maintain  those  establishments  which,  for  some  time  to  come,  would 
suffice  in  time  of  peace.  But  would  it  be  wise,  or  would  it  not 
rather  be  the  extreme  of  folly,  to  stop  at  this  point,  and  to  leave 
the  government  entrusted  with  the  care  of  the  national  defence  in 
a  state  of  absolute  incapacity  to  provide  for  the  protection  of  the 
community,  against  future  invasions  of  the  public  peace,  by  for- 
eign war  or  domestic  convulsions  1  If  we  must  be  obliged  to  ex- 
ceed this  point,  where  can  we  stop  short  of  an  indefinite  power  of 
providing  for  emergencies  as  they  may  arise?  Though  it  be  easy 
to  assert  in  general  terms,  the  possibility  of  forming  a  rational 
judgment  of  a  due  provision  against  probable  dangers  ;  yet  we 
may  safely  challenge  those  who  make  the  assertion,  to  bring  for- 
ward their  data,  and  may  affirm,  that  they  would  be  found  as 
vague  and  uncertain  as  any  that  could  be  produced  to  establish 
the  probable  duration  of  the  world.  Observations,  confined  to  the 
mere  prospects  of  internal  attacks,  can  deserve  no  weight ;  though 
even  these  will  admit  of  no  satisfactory  calculations :  but  if  we 
mean  to  be  a  conmiercial  people,  it  must  form  a  part  of  our  policy 
to  be  able  one  day  to  defend  that  commerce.  The  support  of  a 
navy,  and  of  naval  Avars,  would  involve  contingencies  that  must 
baffle  all  the  eftorts  of  political  arithmetic. 

Admitting  that  we  ought  to  try  the  novel  and  absurd  experiment 
in  politics,  of  tying  up  the  hands  of  government  from  oftensive 
war,  founded  upon  reasons  of  state ;  yet  certainly  we  ought  not 
to  disable  it  from  guarding  the  community  against  the  ambition  or 
enmity  of  other  nations.  A  cloud  has  been  for  some  time  hang- 
ing over  the  European  world.      If  it  should  break  forth  into  a 


100  THE  FEDERALIST. 

storm,  who  can  ensure  us,  that  in  its  progress  a  part  of  its  fury 
would  not  be  spent  upon  us  ?  No  reasonable  man  would  hastilj 
pronounce,  that  we  are  entirely  out  of  its  reach.  Or  if  the  com- 
bustible materials,  that  now  seem  to  be  collected,  should  be  dissi- 
pated without  coming  to  maturity  ;  or  if  aflame  should  be  kindled 
witliout  extending  to  us  ;  what  security  can  we  have,  that  our  tran- 
quillity will  long  remain  undisturbed  from  some  other  cause,  or 
from  some  other  quarter  ?  Let  us  recollect,  that  peace  or  war 
will  not  always  be  left  to  our  option  ;  that  however  moderate  or 
unambitious  we  may  be,  we  cannot  count  upon  the  moderation,  or 
hope  to  extinguish  the  ambition,  of  others.  Who  could  have  im- 
agined, at  the  conclusion  of  the  last  war,  that  France  and  Britain, 
wearied  and  exhausted  as  they  both  were,  would  already  have 
looked  with  so  hostile  an  aspect  upon  each  other  ?  To  judge  from 
the  history  of  mankind,  we  shall  be  compelled  to  conclude,  that 
the  fiery  and  destructive  passions  of  war  reign  in  the  human 
breast  with  much  more  powerful  sway,  than  the  mild  and  benefi- 
cent sentiments  of  peace;  and  that  to  model  our  political  systems 
upon  speculations  of  lasting  tranquillity,  would  be  to  calculate  on 
the  weaker  springs  of  the  human  character. 

What  are  the  chief  sources  of  expense  in  every  government? 
What  has  occasioned  that  enormous  accumulation  of  debts  with 
which  several  of  the  European  nations  are  oppressed  1  The  an- 
swer plainly  is,  wars  and  rebellions  ;  the  support  of  those  institu- 
tions, which  are  necessary  to  guard  the  body  politic  against  these 
two  most  mortal  diseases  of  society.  The  expenses  arising  from 
those  institutions  which  relate  to  the  mere  domestic  police  of  a 
state,  to  the  support  of  its  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  de- 
partments, with  their  difterent  appendages,  and  to  the  encourage- 
ment of  agriculture  and  manufactures,  (which  will  comprehend 
almost  all  the  objects  of  state  expenditure,)  are  insignificant  in 
comparison  with  those  which  relate  to  the  national  defence. 

In  the  kingdom  of  Great  Britain,  where  all  the  ostentatious  ap- 
paratus of  monarchy  is  to  be  provided  for,  not  above  a  fifteenth 
part  of  the  annual  income  of  the  nation  is  appropriated  to  the 
class  of  expenses  last  mentioned  :  the  other  fourteen  fifteenths  are 
absorbed  in  the  payment  of  the  interest  of  debts  contracted  for 
carrying  on  the  wars  in  which  that  country  has  been  engaged,  and 
in  the  maintenance  of  fleets  and  armies.  If,  on  the  one  hand,  it 
should  be  observed,  that  the  expenses  incurred  in  the  prosecution 
of  the  ambitious  enterprises  and  vainglorious  pursuits  of  a  mon- 
archy, are  not  a  proper  standard  by  which  to  judge  of  those  which 
might  be  necessary  in  a  republic  ;  it  ought,  on  the  other  hand,  to 


THE  FEDERALIST.  161 

be  remarked,  that  there  should  be  as  great  a  disproportion  between 
the  profusion  and  extravagance  of  a  weahhy  kingdom  in  its  do- 
mestic administration,  and  the  frugality  and  economy  which,  in 
that  particular,  become  the  modest  simplicity  of  republican  gov- 
ernment. If  we  balance  a  proper  deduction  from  one  side,  against 
that  which  it  is  supposed  ought  to  be  made  from  the  other,  the 
proportion  may  still  be  considered  as  holding  good. 

But  let  us  take  a  view  of  the  large  debt  which  we  have  ourselves 
contracted  in  a  single  war,  and  let  us  only  calculate  on  a  common 
share  of  the  events  which  disturb  the  peace  of  nations,  and  we 
shall  instantly  perceive,  without  the  aid  of  any  elaborate  illustra- 
tion, that  there  must  always  be  an  immense  disproportion  between 
the  objects  of  federal  and  state  expenditure.  It  is  true,  that  several 
of  the  states,  separately,  are  encumbered  with  considerable  debts, 
•which  are  an  excrescence  of  the  late  war.  But  this  cannot  hap- 
pen again,  if  the  proposed  system  be  adopted;  and  when  these 
debts  are  discharged,  the  only  call  for  revenue  of  any  consequence, 
which  the  state  governments  will  continue  to  experience,  will  be 
for  the  mere  support  of  their  respective  civil  lists  ;  to  which,  if 
we  add  all  contingencies,  the  total  amount  in  every  state  ought  to 
fall  considerably  short  of  a  million  of  dollars. 

If  it  cannot  be  denied  to  be  a  just  principle,  that  in  framing  a 
constitution  of  government  for  a  nation,  we  ought,  in  those  pro- 
visions which  are  designed  to  be  permanent,  to  calculate,  not  on 
temporary,  but  on  permanent  causes  of  expense  ;  our  attention 
would  be  directed  to  a  provision  in  favour  of  the  state  governments 
for  an  annual  sum  of  about  one  million  dollars  ;  while  the  exigen- 
cies of  the  union  could  be  susceptible  of  no  limits,  even  in  imag- 
ination. In  this  view  of  the  subject,  by  what  logic  can  it  be  main- 
tained, that  the  local  governments  ought  to  conmiand,  in  perpetu- 
ity, an  exclusive  source  of  revenue  for  any  sum  beyond  that  which 
has  been  stated  ?  To  extend  its  power  further,  in  exclusion  of  the 
authority  of  the  union,  would  be  to  take  the  resources  of  the  com- 
munity out  of  those  hands  which  stood  in  need  of  them  for  the 
public  welfare,  in  order  to  put  them  into  other  hands  which  could 
have  no  just  or  proper  occasion  for  them. 

Suppose  then,  the  convention  had  been  inclined  to  proceed  upon 
the  principle  of  a  repartition  of  the  objects  of  revenue,  between 
the  union  and  its  members  in  propor&lt;2on  to  their  comparative  ne- 
cessities ;  what  particular  fund  could  have  been  selected  for  the 
use  of  the  states,  that  would  not  either  have  been  too  much  or  too 
little  ;  too  little  for  their  present,  too  much  for  their  future  wants  1 
As  to  the  line  of  separation  between  external  and  internal  taxes, 
19 


lea  THE  FEDERALIST. 

this  would  leave  to  tho  statos,  at  a  rouiih  coinpiitatioii,  the  oom- 
mniiil  of  two  thirds  of  the  resouroos  ot"  tho  couinuwuty,  to  defray 
from  a  tenth  to  a  twentieth  of  its  expenses;  and,  to  the  union, 
one  third  of  the  resources  of  the  coninuinity,  to  defray  from  nine 
tenths  to  nineteen  twentieths  of  its  expenses.  If  we  desert  this 
botindary,  and  content  «&gt;nrselves  with  leavinij  to  the  states  an  ex- 
clusive power  of  taxing  houses  and  lands,  there  would  still  he  a 
great  disproportiiMi  hetween  the  iitran;&gt;  and  (he  titd :  the  possession 
of  one  third  o(  the  resources  of  the  community  to  supply,  at  most, 
one  tenth  of  its  wants.  If  any  timd  could  have  heen  selected, 
and  appropriated,  equal  to  and  i\o\  jircater  than  theohject,  it  would 
have  been  inadequate  to  the  dischai&gt;;e  of  the  existinij  debts  of  the 
particular  states,  and  would  have  left  them  depcnilent  on  the  union 
for  a  provision  for  this  purpose. 

The  precediii'T  train  of  «&gt;bservations  \\\\\  justify  the  position 
which  has  been  elsewhere  laid  dt)wn,  tiiat  "  a  concikkknt  jvris- 
"  Du  rioN  in  the  article  of  taxation,  was  tho  only  admissible  svd&gt;- 
'•  stitutc  for  an  entire  subi&gt;rdination,  in  respect  tt)  this  branch  of 
"  power,  of  state  auti\oritv  to  that  of  the  union."  Any  separation 
of  the  objects  of  revenue  that  c(&gt;uld  have  been  fallen  upon,  wouUl 
have  amounteil  to  a  sacritice  of  the  ijreat  iNTK.KKsrs  of  the  union  to 
the  rowKK  of  tho  individual  states.  The  convention  thought  the 
concurrent  jurisdiction  preferable  to  that  subordination  ;  and  it 
is  evident  that  it  has  at  least  the  merit  of  reconciling  an  indeli- 
nite  constitutional  power  of  taxation  in  the  fcileral  government, 
with  an  adequate  and  independent  power  in  the  states  to  provide 
for  their  own  necessities.  There  remain  a  tew  other  lights,  in 
which  tins  important  subject  of  taxation  \m11  claim  a  further  con- 
sideration. rriJLivs. 


NO.  XXXV. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued. 

Before  we  proceed  to  examine  any  other  objections  to  an  in- 
definite power  of  taxati«in*in  the  union,  I  shall  make  oi\e  general 
remark;  which  is,  that  if  the  jurisdiction  of  the  national  govern- 
ment, in  the  article  of  revenue,  should  be  restricted  to  particuinr 
objects,  it  would  naturally  occasion  an  undue  proportii&gt;n  of  the 
public  burthens  to  fall  upon  those  objects.  Two  evils  would 
spring  from  this  source.. ..the  oppression  of  particular  branches  of 


Till:   KLDKRALIST.  KJS 

industry,  mid  an  iiiie(|ii.'tl  (listribiitiou  of  ilw  taxes,  n.s  well  uinoii^ 
the  several  states,  ns  uiiioii^  llio  cjti/.cii.s  of  tlioHnine  state. 

Suppose,  as  Ims  been  cotitoiidod  Ibr,  tlie  fedcrul  power  of  taxa- 
tion were  to  Uc  coDfiiied  to  duties  on  imports;  it  is  evident  tliut 
the  government,  for  want  of  beiu&lt;;  nhW  to  couunund  otiier  resour- 
ces, would  fre(iuently  be  teni))ted  to  extend  these  duties  to  an  in- 
jurious excess.  There  are  {)erHons  who  iniaj^iuo  that  this  can 
never  be  the  cnso  ;  since  the  higher  they  are  tlic  more  it  is  alleged 
they  will  tend  to  discourage  nn  extravagant  consumption,  to  j)ro- 
duce  a  favourabh;  balance  of  trade,  and  to  promote  domestic  man- 
ufactures. But  all  extremes  are  pernicious  in  various  ways.  Kx- 
orbitant  duties  on  ini|)orted  articles  serve  to  beget  a  gotuiral  spirit 
of  smuggling;  uhicli  is  always  prejudicial  to  the  fair  trader,  and 
eventually  to  the  reveuu(!  itself:  they  lend  to  render  other  classes 
of  the  comnninity  tributary,  in  an  inipro|)&lt;;r  degree,  to  the  man- 
ufacturing classes,  to  whom  they  give  a  premature  monoprdy  of 
the  markets:  they  sometimes  force  ir»dust ry  out  of  its  most  natu- 
ral channels  into  others  in  which  it  flows  with  less  advantage  :  and 
in  the  last  place,  they  oppress  the  merchant,  who  is  often  obliged 
to  pay  tliem  himself  williout  any  retribution  from  the  consumer. 
When  the  demand  is  e(pial  to  tlic  (piantity  of  goods  at  market, 
the  consunuM-  generally  pays  the  duty  ;  but  when  the  markets  hap- 
pen to  be  overstocked,  a  great  proportion  falls  upon  tla;  merchant, 
and  s(unetimes  not  only  exhausts  bis  profits,  but  breaks  in  upon 
his  capital.  I  am  apt  to  think,  that  a  ilivision  of  the  duty,  be- 
tween the  seller  and  the  buyer,  more  often  happens  than  is  com- 
monly imagined.  It  is  not  always  possible  to  raisf!  the  price  «)f  a 
commodity,  in  exact  proportion  to  every  additional  imposition  laid 
upon  it.  The  merchant,  especially  in  a  country  of  small  com- 
mercial capital,  is  often  under  a  necessity  of  keeping  prices  down 
in  order  to  a  more  ex|)editious  sale. 

The  maxim  that  the  consumer  is  the  payer,  is  so  much  oftener 
true  than  the  reverse  of  the  jiroposition,  that  it  is  far  more  equita- 
ble that  the  duties  on  imports  should  go  into  a  conmion  stock,  than 
that  they  should  redcaiiid  to  the  exclusive  benefit  of  the  importing 
states.  But  it  is  iu)t  so  generally  true,  as  to  render  it  etpiitable, 
that  those  duties  should  form  the  only  national  fund.  When  they 
are  paid  by  the  merchant,  they  operate  as  an  additional  tax  upon 
the  importing  state  ;  whose  citizens  pay  their  proportion  of  them 
in  the  character  of  consumers.  In  this  view,  they  are  jiroductive 
of  inequality  among  the  states  ;  which  inequality  would  be  increas- 
ed with  the  increased  extent  of  the  duties.  The  confinement  of 
the  national  revenues  to  this  species  of  imposts,  would  be  attended 


164  THE  FEDERALIST. 

with  incqiinlitv.  from  a  diflerent  ca»i&lt;c.  between  the  nianufacttiriusr 
and  tlio  non-nianufjioturinsr  statesi.  The  stales  which  can  STO 
furthest  towards  the  supply,  of  their  own  wants,  hy  their  own 
nianufaotiires,  will  not,  aceordinij  to  their  numl&gt;ers  or  wealth,  con- 
sume so  ffreat  a  pro|&gt;«-&gt;rtion  of  imported  articles,  as  those  states 
which  are  not  in  the  same  favourable  situation.  They  would  not 
therefore,  in  this  mode  alone,  contribute  to  the  {Miblic  treasury  in 
a  ratio  to  their  abilities.  To  make  them  do  this,  it  is  necessary 
that  recourse  be  had  to  excises ;  the  proper  objects  of  which  are 
particular  kinds  of  manufactures.  New  York  is  more  deeply  in- 
terested in  these  considerations,  than  such  of  her  citizens  as  con- 
tend for  limitiui;  the  power  of  the  union  to  externa!  taxation,  may 
be  aware  of.  New  York  is  an  importing  state,  and  from  a  jrreatcr 
disproportion  bt^tween  her  population  and  territory,  is  K^sS  likely, 
llum  some  other  states,  speedily  to  l&gt;ecome  in  any  considerable  de- 
gree a  manufacturing  state.  She  would  of  course  suffer,  in  a 
double  liuht,  iVom  restraining  the  jurisdiction  of  the  union  to  com- 
mercial impost*. 

So  far  as  these  observations  tend  to  inculcate  a  danger  of  the 
imjH&gt;rt  duties  being  extended  to  an  injurious  extreme,  it  may  be 
observed,  comlormably  to  a  remark  made  in  another  part  of  these 
papers,  that  the  interest  of  the  revenue  itself  would  be  a  sufficient 
guard  asrainst  such  an  extreme.  I  readily  admit  that  this  would 
be  the  case,  as  long  as  other  resources  were  open  ;  but  if  the  ave- 
nues to  them  were  cl«&gt;sed,  hope,  siimulatiHl  by  necessity,  might  be- 
get experiments,  fortified  by  rigorous  precautions  and  additional 
j&gt;enaliu-s;  which,  lor  a  time,  might  have  the  intended  effect,  till 
there  had  been  leisure  to  contrive  expedients  to  elude  the^  new 
precjiutions.  The  lirst  success  would  be  apt  to  inspire  false  opin- 
ions ;  which  it  might  require  a  long  course  of  subsequent  experi- 
ence to  correct.  Necessity,  especially  in  poliucs,  often  occasions 
false  ho}&gt;es,  ftilse  reasonings,  and  a  system  of  measures  corre^ 
pondcntly  erroneous.  But  even  if  lliis  supjnised  excess  should  not 
be  a  consequence  of  the  limitation  of  tlie  federal  power  of  taxa- 
tion, the  inequalities  spoken  of  would  still  ensue,  though  not  in 
tlie  same  degree,  from  the  other  causes  that  have  been  noticed. 
Let  us  now  return  to  the  examination  of  objections. 

One  which,  if  we  may  judge  fnim  tlie  frequency  of  its  repeti- 
tion, seems  most  to  Ite  relied  on,  is,  that  the  house  of  representa- 
tives is  not  sufficiently  numerous  fat  the  reception  of  all  tlie  differ- 
ent cia&amp;ses  of  citizens ;  in  order  to  combine  the  interests  and  feel- 
ings of  every  pkirt  of  the  community,  and  to  produce  a  due  sym- 
pathy between  the  representative  body  and  its  constituents.     This 


THE  FEDERALIST.  165 

argument  presents  itself  under  a  very  specious  and  seducing  form  ; 
and  is  well  calculated  to  lay  hold  of  the  prejudices  of  those  to 
whom  it  is  addressed.  But  when  we  come  to  dissect  it  with  atten- 
tion, it  will  appear  to  be  made  up  of  nothing  but  fair-sounding 
words.  The  object  it  seems  to  aim  at,  is  in  the  first  place  imprac- 
ticable, and  in  the  sense  iu  which  it  is  contended  for  is  unnecessa- 
ry. I  reserve  for  another  place,  the  discussion  of  the  question 
which  relates  to  the  sufficiency  of  the  representative  body  in  respect 
to  numbers  ;  and  shall  content  myself  with  examining  here  the 
particular  use  which  has  been  made  of  a  contrary  supposition,  in 
reference  to  the  immediate  subject  of  our  inquiries. 

The  idea  of  an  actual  representation  of  all  classes  of  the  peo- 
ple, by  persons  of  each  class,  is  altogether  visionary.  Unless  it 
were  expressly  provided  in  the  constitution,  that  each  difterent  oc- 
cupation should  send  one  or  more  members,  the  thing  would  never 
take  place  in  practice.  Mechanics  and  manufacturers  will  always 
be  inclined,  with  few  exceptions,  to  give  their  votes  to  merchants, 
in  preference  to  persons  of  their  own  professions  or  trades.  Those 
discerning  citizens  are  well  aware,  that  the  mechanic  and  manu- 
facturing arts  furnish  the  materials  of  mercantile  enterprise  and 
industry.  Many  of  them,  indeed,  are  immediately  connected  with 
the  operations  of  cotnmerce.  They  know  that  the  merchant  is 
their  natural  patron  and  friend  ;  and  they  are  aware,  that  however 
great  the  confidence  they  may  justly  feel  in  their  own  good  sense, 
their  interests  can  be  more  effectually  promoted  by  the  merchant 
than  by  themselves.  They  are  sensible  that  their  habits  of  life 
have  not  been  such  as  to  give  them  those  acquired  endowments, 
without  which,  in  a  deliberative  assembly,  the  greatest  natural  abili- 
ties are  for  the  most  part  useless ;  and  that  the  influence  and 
weight,  and  superiour  acquirements  of  the  merchants  render  them 
more  equal  to  a  contest  with  any  spirit  which  might  happen  to 
infuse  itself  into  the  public  councils,  unfriendly  to  the  manufac- 
turing and  trading  interests.  These  considerations,  and  many 
others  that  might  be  mentioned,  prove,  and  experience  confirms 
it,  that  artisans  and  manufacturers  will  commonly  be  disposed  to 
bestow  their  votes  upon  merchants  and  those  whom  they  recom- 
mend. We  must  therefore  consider  merchants  as  the  natural  rep- 
resentatives of  all  these  classes  of  the  community. 

With  regard  to  the  learned  professions,  little  need  be  observed: 
they  truly  form  no  distinct  interest  in  society  ;  and  according  to 
their  situation  and  talents,  will  be  indiscriminately  the  objects  of 
the  confidence  and  choice  of  each  other,  and  of  other  parts  of  the 
community. 


166  THE  FEDERALIST. 

Nothiiio-  remains  but  the  landed  interest ;  and  this,  in  a  political 
view,  and  particularly  in  relation  to  taxes,  I  take  to  be  perfectly 
united,  from  the  wealthiest  landh)rd,  down  to  the  poorest  tenant. 
No  tax  can  be  laid  on  land  wliich  will  not  affect  the  proprietor  of 
thousands  of  acres,  as  well  as  the  proprietor  of  a  single  acre. 
Every  landholder  will  therefore  have  a  common  interest  to  keep 
the  taxes  on  land  as  low  as  possible  ;  and  common  interest  may 
always  be  reckoned  upon  as  the  surest  bond  of  sympathy.  But  if 
we  even  could  suppose  a  distinction  of  interests  between  the  opu- 
lent landholder,  and  the  middling  farmer,  what  reason  is  there  to 
conclude,  that  the  first  would  stand  a  better  chance  of  being  de- 
puted to  the  national  legislature  than  the  last  1  If  we  take  fact 
as  our  guide,  and  look  into  our  own  senate  and  assembly,  we  shall 
find  that  moderate  proprietors  of  land  prevail  in  both ;  nor  is  this 
less  the  case  in  the  senate,  which  consists  of  a  smaller  number, 
than  in  the  assembljs  which  is  composed  of  a  greater  number. 
Where  the  qualifications  of  the  electors  are  the  same,  whether 
they  have  to  choose  a  small  or  a  large  number,  their  votes  will  fall 
upon  those  in  whom  they  have  most  confidence;  whether  these 
happen  to  be  men  of  large  fortunes,  or  of  moderate  property,  or 
of  no  property  at  all. 

It  is  said  to  be  necessary,  that  all  classes  of  citizens  should  have 
some  of  their  own  number  in  the  representative  body,  in  order 
that  their  feelings  and  interests  may  be  the  better  understood  and 
attended  to.  But  we  have  seen  that  this  will  never  happen  under 
any  arrangement  that  leaves  the  votes  of  the  people  free.  Where 
this  is  the  case,  the  representative  body,  with  too  few  exceptions 
to  have  any  influence  on  the  spirit  of  the  government,  will  be  com- 
posed of  landholders,  merchants,  and  men  of  the  learned  profes- 
sions. But  where  is  the  danger  that  the  interests  and  feelings  of 
the  different  classes  of  citizens  will  not  be  understood  or  attended 
to  by  these  three  descriptions  of  men  1  Will  not  the  landholder 
know  and  feel  whatever  will  promote  or  injure  the  interest  of 
landed  property  ?  And  will  he  not,  from  his  own  interest  in  that 
species  of  property,  be  sufficiently  prone  to  resist  every  attempt 
to  prejudice  or  encumber  it  1  Will  not  the  merchant  understand 
and  be  disposed  to  cultivate,  as  far  as  may  be  proper,  the  interests 
of  the  mechanic  and  manufacturing  arts,  to  which  his  commerce 
is  so  nearly  allied  1  Will  not  the  man  of  the  learned  profession, 
who  will  feel  a  neutrality  to  the  rivalships  among  the  different 
branches  of  industry,  be  likely  to  prove  an  impartial  arbiter  be- 
tween them,  ready  to  promote  either,  so  far  as  it  shall  appear  to 
him  conducive  to  the  general  interest  of  the  community  t 


THE  FEDERALIST.  167 

If  we  take  into  the  account  the  momentary  humours  or  dispo- 
sitions which  may  happen  to  prevail  in  particular  parts  of  the  so- 
ciety, and  to  which  a  wise  administration  will  never  be  inattentive, 
is  the  man  whose  situation  leads  to  extensive  inquiry  and  informa- 
tion less  likely  to  be  a  competent  judge  of  their  nature,  extent,  and 
foundation,  than  one  whose  observation  does  not  travel  beyond  the 
circle  of  his  neighbours  and  acquaintances  1  Is  it  not  natural, 
that  a  man  who  is  a  candidate  for  the  favour  of  the  people,  and 
who  is  dependent  on  the  suffrages  of  his  fellow-citizens  for  the 
continuance  of  his  public  honours,  should  take  care  to  inform  him- 
self of  their  dispositions  and  inclinations,  and  should  be  willing  to 
allow  them  the  proper  degree  of  influence  upon  his  conduct  ?  This 
dependence,  and  the  necessity  of  being  bound  himself,  and  his 
posterity,  by  the  laws  to  which  he  gives  his  assent,  are  the  true, 
and  they  are  the  strong  chords  of  sympathy,  between  the  repre- 
sentative and  the  constituent. 

There  is  no  part  of  the  administration  of  government  that  re- 
quires extensive  information,  and  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the 
principles  of  political  economy,  so  much  as  the  business  of  taxa- 
tion. The  man  who  understands  those  principles  best,  will  be  least 
likely  to  resort  to  oppressive  expedients,  or  to  sacrifice  any  par- 
ticular class  of  citizens  to  the  procurement  of  revenue.  It  might 
be  demonstrated  that  the  most  productive  system  of  finance  will 
always  be  the  least  burthensome.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  in 
order  to  a  judicious  exercise  of  the  power  of  taxation,  it  is  neces- 
sary that  the  person  in  whose  hands  it  is,  should  be  acquainted 
with  the  general  genius,  habits,  and  modes  of  thinking  of  the  peo- 
ple at  large,  and  with  the  resources  of  the  country.  And  this  is 
all  that  can  be  reasonably  meant  by  a  knowledge  of  the  interests 
and  feelings  of  the  people.  In  any  other  sense,  the  proposition 
has  either  no  meaning,  or  an  absurd  one.  And  in  that  sense,  let 
every  considerate  citizen  judge  for  himself,  Avhere  the  requisite 
qualification  is  most  likely  to  be  found.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XXXVL 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued. 

We  have  seen  that  the  result  of  the  observations,  to  which  the 
foregoing  number  has  been  principally  devoted,  is,  that  from  the 
natural  operation  of  the  different  interests  and  views  of  the  vari- 


jgg  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ous  classes  of  the  community,  whether  the  representation  of  the 
people  he  more  or  less  numerous,  it  will  consist  almost  entirely  of 
proprietors  of  land,  of  merchants,  and  of  members  of  the  learned 
professions,  who  will  truly  represent  all  those  different  interests 
and  views.  If  it  should  be  uhjected,  that  we  have  seen  other  de- 
scriptions of  men  in  the  local  legislatures  ;  I  answer,  that  it  is  ad- 
mitted there  are  exceptions  to  the  rule,  but  not  in  sufficient  num- 
ber to  influence  the  general  complexion  or  character  of  the  gov- 
ernment. There  are  strong  minds  in  every  walk  of  life,  that  will 
rise  superiour  to  the  disadvantages  of  situation,  and  will  command 
the  tribute  due  to  their  merit,  not  only  from  the  classes  to  which 
they  particularly  belong,  but  from  the  society  in  general.  The 
door  ought  to  be  equally  open  to  all  ;  and  I  trust,  for  the  credit  of 
human  nature,  that  we  sball  see  examples  of  such  vigorous  plants 
flourishing  in  the  soil  of  federal,  as  well  as  of  state  legislation ; 
but  occasional  instances  of  this  sort  will  not  render  the  reasoning, 
founded  upon  the  general  course  of  things,  less  conclusive. 

The  subject  might  be  placed  in  several  other  lights,  that  would 
all  lead  to  the  same  result  ;  and  in  particular  it  might  be  asked, 
what  o-reater  affinity  or  relation  of  interest  can  be  conceived,  be- 
tween the  carpenter  and  blacksmith,  and  the  linen-manufacturer 
or  stocking-weaver,  than  between  the  merchant  and  either  of 
them  ?  It  is  notorious,  that  there  are  often  as  great  rivalships  be- 
tween different  branches  of  the  mechanic  or  manufacturing  arts, 
as  there  are  between  any  of  the  departments  of  labour  and  indus- 
try ;  so  that  unless  the  representative  body  were  to  be  far  more 
numerous,  than  would  be  consistent  with  any  idea  of  regularity 
or  wisdom  in  its  deliberation,  it  is  impossible  that  what  seems  to 
be  the  spirit  of  the  objection  we  have  been  considering,  should 
ever  be  realized  in  practice.  But  I  forbear  to  dwell  longer  on  a 
matter,  which  has  hitherto  worn  too  loose  a  garb  to  admit  even  of 
an  accurate  inspection  of  its  real  shape  or  tendency. 

There  is  another  objection  of  a  somewhat  more  precise  nature, 
which  claims  our  attention.  It  has  been  asserted  that  a  power  of 
internal  taxation  in  the  national  legislature,  could  never  be  exer- 
cised with  advantage,  as  well  from  the  want  of  a  sufficient  knowl- 
edo^e  of  local  circumstances,  as  from  an  interference  between  the 
revenue  laws  of  the  union,  and  of  the  particular  states.  The  sup- 
position of  a  want  of  proper  knowledge,  seems  to  be  entirely  des- 
titute of  foundation.  If  any  question  is  depending  in  a  state  leg- 
islature, respecting  one  of  the  counties,  which  demands  a  knowl- 
edge of  local  details,  how  is  it  acquired  ?  No  doubt  from  the  in- 
formation of  the  members  of  the  county.     Cannot  the  like  knowl- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  16d 

edge  be  obtained  in  the  national  legislature,  from  the  representa-^ 
lives  of  each  state  7  And  is  it  not  to  be  presumed,  that  the  men 
who  will  generally  be  sent  there,  will  be  possessed  of  the  necessa- 
ry degree  of  intelligence,  to  be  able  to  communicate  that  informa- 
tion 1  Is  the  knowledge  of  local  circumstances,  as  applied  to  tax- 
ation, a  minute  topographical  acquaintance  with  all  the  moun-* 
tains,  rivers,  streams,  highways,  and  by-paths  in  each  state  ?  Ot 
is  it  aeeneral  acquaintance  with  its  situation,  and  resources. ...with 
the  state  of  its  agriculture,  commerce,  manufactures.. ..with  the  na- 
ture of  its  products  and  consumptions... .with  the  different  degrees 
and  kinds  of  its  wealth,  property,  and  industry? 

Nations  in  general,  even  under  governments  of  the  more  popu-' 
lar  kind,  usually  commit  the  administration  of  their  finances  to 
single  men,  or  to  boards  composed  of  a  few  individuals,  who  digest 
and  prepare,  in  the  first  instance,  the  plans  of  taxation  ;  which 
are  afterwards  passed  into  law  by  the  authority  of  the  sovereign 
or  legislature.  Inquisitive  and  enlightened  statesmen,  are  every- 
where deemed  best  qualified  to  make  a  judicious  selection  of  the 
objects  proper  for  revenue  ;  which  is  a  clear  indication,  as  far  as 
the  sense  of  mankind  can  have  weight  in  the  question,  of  the  spe- 
cies of  knowledge  of  local  circumstances,  requisite  to  the  purposes 
of  taxation. 

That  taxes  intended  to  be  comprised  under  the  general  denomi-» 
nation  of  internal  taxes,  may  be  subdivided  into  those  of  the  direct, 
and  those  of  the  indirect  kind.  Though  the  objection  be  made  to 
both,  yet  the  reasoning  upon  it  seems  to  be  confined  to  the  formed 
branch.  And  indeed,  as  to  the  latter,  by  which  must  be  under- 
stood duties  and  excises  on  articles  of  consumption,  one  is  at  a 
loss  to  conceive,  what  can  be  the  nature  of  the  difficulties  appre- 
hended. The  knowledge  relating  to  them  must  evidently  be  of  a 
kind,  that  will  either  be  suggested  by  the  nature  of  the  article 
itself,  or  can  easily  be  procured  from  any  well-informed  man,  es-» 
pecially  of  the  mercantile  class.  The  circumstances  that  may 
distinguish  its  situation  in  one  state,  from  its  situation  in  another, 
must  be  few,  simple,  and  easy  to  be  comprehended.  The  princi- 
pal thing  to  be  attended  to,  would  be  to  avoid  those  articles  which 
had  been  previously  appropriated  to  the  use  of  a  particular  state  ; 
and  there  could  be  no  difficulty  in  ascertaining  the  revenue  system 
of  each.  This  could  always  be  known  from  the  respective  Codes 
of  laws,  as  well  as  from  the  information  of  the  members  of  the 
several  states. 

The  objection  when  applied  to  real  property,  or  to  houses  and 
lands,  appears  to  have,  at  first  sight,  more  foundation ;  but  even 
20 


170  THE  FEDERALIST. 

in  this  view,  it  will  not  bear  a  close  examination.  Land-taxes  are 
commonly  laid  in  one  of  two  modes,  either  by  actual  valuations, 
permanent  or  periodical,  or  by  occasional  assessments,  at  the  dis- 
cretion, or  according  to  the  best  judgment  of  certain  officers, 
whose  duty  it  is  to  make  them.  In  either  case,  the  execution  of 
the  business,  which  alone  requires  the  knowledge  of  local  details, 
must  be  confided  to  discreet  persons  in  the  character  of  commis- 
sioners or  assessors,  elected  by  the  people,  or  appointed  by  the 
government  for  the  purpose.  All  that  the  law  can  do,  must  be  to 
name  the  persons,  or  to  prescribe  the  manner  of  their  election  or 
appointment;  to  fix  their  numbers  and  qualifications,  and  to  draw 
the  general  outlines  of  their  powers  and  duties.  And  what  is 
there  in  all  this,  that  cannot  as  well  be  performed  by  the  national 
legislature,  as  by  the  state  legislature?  The  attention  of  either 
can  only  reach  to  general  principles:  local  details,  as  already  ob- 
served, must  be  referred  to  those  who  are  to  execute  the  plan. 

But  there  is  a  simple  point  of  view,  in  which  this  matter  maybe 
placed,  that  must  be  altogether  satisfactory.  The  national  legis- 
lature can  make  use  of  the  si/stem  of  each  state  tcitkin  that  state. 
The  method  of  laying  and  collecting  this  species  of  taxes  in  each 
state  can,  in  all  its  parts,  be  adopted  and  employed  by  the  federal 
government. 

Let  it  be  recollected,  that  the  proportion  of  these  taxes  is  not  to 
be  left  to  the  discretion  of  the  national  legislature  :  but  it  is  to  be 
determined  by  the  numbers  of  each  state,  as  described  in  the  sec- 
ond section  of  the  first  article.  An  actual  census,  or  enumeration 
of  the  people,  must  furnish  the  rule ;  a  circumstance  which  eftect- 
nally  shuts  the  door  to  partiality  or  oj)pression.  The  abuse  of 
this  power  of  taxation  seems  to  have  been  provided  against  with 
guarded  circumspection.  In  addition  to  the  precaution  just  men- 
tioned, there  is  a  provision,  that "  all  duties,  imposts,  and  excises 
"shall  be  uniform  throughout  the  United  States." 

It  has  been  very  properly  observed,  by  difterent  speakers  and 
writers  on  the  side  of  the  constitution,  that  if  the  exercise  of  the 
power  of  internal  taxation  by  the  union,  should  be  judged  before- 
hand upon  mature  consideration,  or  sliould  be  discovered  on  ex- 
periment, to  be  really  inconvenient,  the  federal  government  may 
forbear  the  use  of  it,  and  have  recourse  to  requisitions  in  its  stead. 
By  way  of  answer  to  this,  it  has  been  triumphantly  asked,  why 
not  in  the  first  instance  omit  that  ambiguous  power,  and  rely  upon 
the  latter  resource  1  Two  solid  answers  may  be  given  ;  tlie  first 
is,  that  the  actual  exercise  of  the  power,  may  be  found  both  con- 
venient and  necessary ;  for  it  is  impossible  to  prove  in  theory,  or 


THE  FEDERALIST.  171 

otherwise  than  by  the  experiment,  that  it  cannot  be  advantageous- 
ly exercised.  The  contrary,  indeed,  appears  most  probable.  The 
second  answer  is,  that  the  existence  of  such  a  power  in  the  con- 
stitution will  have  a  strong  influence  in  giving  efficacy  to  requisi- 
tions. When  the  states  know,  that  the  union  can  supply  itself 
without  their  agency,  it  will  he  a  powerful  motive  for  exertion  on 
their  part. 

As  to  tlie  interference  of  the  revenue  laws  of  the  union,  and  of 
its  members,  we  have  already  seen,  that  there  can  be  no  clashing 
or  repugnancy  of  authority.  The  laws  cannot,  therefore,  in  a  le- 
gal sense,  interfere  with  each  other ;  and  it  is  far  from  impossible 
to  avoid  an  interference  even  in  the  policy  of  their  different  sys- 
tems. An  effectual  expedient  for  this  purpose  will  be,  mutually 
to  abstain  from  those  objects,  which  either  side  may  have  first  had 
recourse  to.  As  neither  can  control  the  other,  each  will  have  an 
obvious  and  sensible  interest  in  this  reciprocal  forbearance.  And 
where  there  is  an  immediate  common  interest,  we  may  safely  count 
upon  its  operation.  When  the  particular  debts  of  the  states  are 
done  away,  and  their  expenses  come  to  be  limited  within  their 
natural  compass,  the  possibility  almost  of  interference  will  vanish. 
A  small  land-tax  will  answer  the  purpose  of  the  states,  and  will 
be  their  most  simple,  and  most  fit  resource. 

Many  spectres  have  been  raised  out  of  this  power  of  internal 
taxation,  to  excite  the  apprehensions  of  the  people. ...double  sets 
of  revenue  officers....a  duplication  of  their  burthens  by  double  tax- 
ations, and  the  frightful  forms  of  odious  and  oppressive  poll-taxes, 
have  been  played  off  with  all  the  ingenious  dexterity  of  political 
legerdemain. 

As  to  the  first  point,  there  are  two  cases  in  which  there  can  be 
no  room  for  double  sets  of  officers  ;  one,  where  the  right  of  im- 
posing the  tax  is  exclusively  vested  in  the  union,  which  applies  to 
the  duties  on  imports :  the  other,  where  the  object  has  not  fallen 
under  any  state  regulation  or  provision,  which  may  be  applicable 
to  a  variety  of  objects.  In  other  cases,  the  probability  is,  that  the 
United  States  will  either  wholly  abstain  from  the  objects  pre-oc- 
cupied  for  local  purposes,  or  will  make  use  of  the  state  officers 
and  state  regulations,  for  collecting  the  additional  imposition. 
This  will  best  answer  the  views  of  revenue,  because  it  will  save 
expense  in  the  collection,  and  will  best  avoid  any  occasion  of  dis- 
gust to  the  state  governments  and  to  the  people.  At  all  events, 
here  is  a  practicable  expedient  for  avoiding  such  an  inconvenience  ; 
and  nothing  more  can  be  required  than  to  show,  that  evils  predict- 
ed do  not  necessarily  result  from  the  plan. 


172  THE  FEDERALIST.. 

As  to  any  argument  derived  from  a  supposed  system  of  influ- 
ence, it  is  a  sufficient  answer  to  say,  tliat  it  ought  not  to  be  pre- 
sumed ;  but  tlie  sujjposition  is  susceptible  of  a  more  precise  an- 
swer. If  such  a  spirit  should  infest  the  councils  of  the  union,  the 
most  certain  road  to  the  accomplish nient  of  its  aim  would  be,  to 
employ  the  state  officers  as  much  as  possible,  and  to  attach  them 
to  the  union  by  an  accumulation  of  their  emoluments.  This  would 
serve  to  turn  the  tide  of  state  influence  into  the  channels  of  the 
national  government,  instead  of  making  federal  influence  flow  in 
an  opposite  and  adverse  current.  But  all  suppositions  of  this  kind 
are  invidious,  and  ought  to  be  banished  from  the  consideration  of 
the  great  question  before  the  people.  They  can  answer  no  other 
end  than  to  cast  a  mist  over  the  truth. 

As  to  the  suggestion  of  double  taxation,  the  answer  is  plain. 
The  wants  of  the  union  are  to  be  supplied  in  one  way  or  another; 
if  by  the  authority  of  the  federal  government,  then  it  will  not  re- 
main to  be  done  by  that  of  the  state  governments.  The  quantity 
of  taxes  to  be  paid  by  the  community,  must  be  the  same  in  either 
case ;  with  this  advantage,  if  the  provision  is  to  be  made  by  the 
union.. ..that  the  capital  resource  of  commercial  imposts,  which  is 
the  most  convenient  branch  of  revenue,  can  be  prudently  improv- 
ed to  a  much  greater  extent  under  federal,  than  under  state  regu- 
lation, and  of  course  will  render  it  less  necessary  to  recur  to  more 
inconvenient  methods  ;  and  with  this  further  advantage,  that  as 
far  as  there  may  be  any  real  difticulty  in  the  exercise  of  the  pow- 
er of  internal  taxation,  it  will  impose  a  disposition  to  greater  care 
in  the  choice  and  arrangement  of  the  means  ;  and  must  naturally 
tend  to  make  it  a  fixed  point  of  policy  in  the  national  administra- 
tion, to  go  as  far  as  may  be  practicable  in  making  the  luxury  of 
the  rich  tributary  to  the  public  treasury,  in  order  to  diminish  the 
necessity  of  those  impositions,  which  might  create  dissatisfaction 
in  the  poorer  and  most  numerous  classes  of  the  society.  Happy 
it  is  when  the  interest  which  the  government  has  in  the  preserva- 
tion of  its  own  power,  coincides  with  a  proper  distribution  of  the 
public  burthens,  and  tends  to  guard  the  least  wealthy  part  of  the 
community  from  oppression  ! 

As  to  poll-taxes,  I,  without  scruple,  confess  my  disapprobation 
of  them  ;  and  though  they  have  prevailed  from  an  early  period  in 
those  states,*  which  have  uniformly  been  the  most  tenacious  of 
their  rights,  I  should  lament  to  see  them  introduced  into  practice 
under  the  national  government.  But  does  it  follow,  because  there 
is  ?i  power  to  lay  them,  that  they  will  actually  be  laid  ?     Every 

"  The  New -England  states. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  173 

state  in  the  union  has  power  to  impose  taxes  of  tliis  kind  ;  and  yet 
in  several  of  them  they  are  unknown  in  y)ractice.  Are  the  state 
governments  to  be  stigmatized  as  tyrannies,  because  they  possess 
this  power  ]  If  they  are  not,  with  what  propriety  can  the  hke 
power  justify  such  a  charge  against  tlie  national  government,  or 
even  be  urged  as  an  obstacle  to  its  adoption  7  As  little  friendly 
as  I  am  to  the  species  of  imposition,  I  still  feel  a  thorough  convic- 
tion, that  the  power  of  having  recourse  to  it  ought  to  exist  in  the 
federal  government.  There  are  certain  emergencies  of  nations, 
in  which  expedients,  that  in  the  ordinary  state  ot  things  ought  to 
be  forborne,  become  essential  to  the  public  weal.  And  the  gov- 
ernment, from  the  possibility  of  such  emergencies,  ought  ever  to 
have  the  option  of  making  use  of  them.  The  real  scarcity  of  ob- 
jects in  this  country,  which  may  be  considered  as  productive  sour- 
ces of  revenue,  is  a  reason  peculiar  to  itself,  for  not  abridging  the 
discretion  of  the  national  councils  in  this  respect.  There  may 
exist  certain  critical  and  tenjpestuous  conjunctures  of  the  state,  in 
which  a  poll-tax  may  become  an  inestimable  resource.  And  as  I 
know  nothing  to  exempt  this  portion  of  the  globe  from  the  com- 
mon calamities  that  have  befallen  other  parts  of  it,  I  acknowledge 
my  aversion  to  every  project  that  is  calculated  to  disarm  the  gov- 
ernment of  a  single  weapon,  which  in  any  possible  continffency 
might  be  usefully  employed  for  the  general  defence  and  security. 

I  have  now  gone  through  the  examination  of  those  powers,  pro- 
posed to  be  conferred  upon  the  federal  government,  which  relate 
more  peculiarly  to  its  energy,  and  to  its  efficiency  for  answering 
the  great  and  primary  objects  of  union.  There  are  others  which, 
though  omitted  here,  will,  in  order  to  render  the  view  of  the  sub- 
ject more  complete,  be  taken  notice  of  under  the  next  head  of  our 
inquiries.  I  flatter  myself  the  progress  already  made,  will  have 
sufficed  to  satisfy  the  candid  and  judicious  part  of  the  community, 
that  some  of  the  objections  which  have  been  most  strenuously 
urged  against  the  constitution,  and  which  were  most  formidable  in 
their  first  appearance,  are  not  only  destitute  of  substance,  but  if 
they  had  operated  in  the  formation  of  the  plan,  would  have  ren- 
dered it  incompetent  to  the  great  ends  of  public  happiness  and  na- 
tional prosperity.  I  equally  flatter  myself,  that  a  further  and  more 
critical  investigation  of  the  system,  will  serve  to  recommend  it 
still  more  to  every  sincere  and  disinterested  advocate  for  good 
government;  and  leave  no  doubt  with  men  of  this  character,  of 
the  propriety  and  expediency  of  adopting  it.  Happy  will  it  be 
for  ourselves,  and  most  honourable  for  human  nature,  if  we  have 
wisdom  and  virtue  enough,  to  set  so  glorious  an  example  to  man- 
kind !  PUBLIUS. 


174  THE  FEDERALIST. 

NO.  XXXVII. 

By  JAMES  MADISON. 

Concerning  the  Dijiculties  which  the  Convention  must  have  Experi- 
enced in  the  Formation  of  a  Proper  Plan. 

In  reviewing  the  defects  of  the  existing  confederation,  and 
showing  that  they  cannot  be  supplied  hy  a  government  of  less  en- 
ergy than  that  before  the  pubhc,  several  of  the  most  important 
principles  of  tiie  latter  fell  of  course  under  consideration.  But 
as  the  ultimate  object  of  these  papers  is,  to  determine  clearly  and 
fully  the  merits  of  this  constitution,  and  the  expediency  of  adopt- 
ing it,  our  plan  cannot  be  completed  without  taking  a  more  criti- 
cal and  thorough  survey  of  the  work  of  the  convention  ;  without 
examing  it  on  all  its  sides  ;  comparing  it  in  all  its  parts,  and  cal- 
culating its  probable  efiects. 

That  this  remaining  task  may  be  executed  under  impressions 
conducive  to  a  just  and  fair  result,  some  reflections  must  in  this 
place  be  indulged,  which  candour  previously  suggests. 

It  is  a  misfortune,  inseparable  from  human  aftairs,  that  public 
measures  are  rarely  investigated  with  that  spirit  of  moderation, 
which  is  essential  to  a  just  estimate  of  their  real  tendency  to  ad- 
vance, or  obstruct,  the  public  good  ;  and  that  this  spirit  is  more 
apt  to  be  diminished  than  promoted,  by  those  occasions  which  re- 
quire an  unusual  exercise  of  it.  To  those  who  have  been  led  by 
experience  to  attend  to  this  consideration,  it  could  not  appear  sur- 
prising, that  the  act  of  the  convention  which  recommends  so  many 
important  changes  and  innovations,  which  may  be  viewed  in  so 
many  lights  and  relations,  and  which  touches  the  springs  of  so 
many  passions  and  interests,  should  find  or  excite  dispositions  un- 
friendly, both  on  one  side  and  on  the  other,  to  a  fair  discussion 
and  accurate  judgment  of  its  merits.  In  some,  it  has  been  too 
evident  from  their  own  publications,  that  they  have  scanned  the 
proposed  constitution,  not  only  with  a  predisposition  to  censure, 
but  with  a  predetermination  to  condemn  ;  as  the  language  held  by 
others,  betrays  an  opposite  predetermination  or  bias,  which  must 
render  their  opinions  also  of  little  moment  in  the  question.  In 
placing,  however,  these  different  characters  on  a  level,  with  respect 
to  the  weight  of  their  opinions,  I  wish  not  to  insinuate  that  there 
may  not  be  a  material  difference  in  the  purity  of  their  intentions. 
It  is  but  just  to  remark  in  favour  of  the  latter  description,  that  as 
our  situation  is  universally  admitted  to  be  peculiarly  critical,  and  to 
require  indispensably,  that  something  should  be  done  for  our  relief, 
the  predetei-mined  patron  of  what  has  been  actually  done,  may 


THE  FEDERALIST.  175 

have  taken  his  bias  from  the  weight  of  these  considerations,  as 
well  as  from  considerations  of  a  sinister  nature.  The  predeter- 
mined adversary,  on  the  other  hand,  can  have  been  governed  by 
no  venial  motive  whatever.  The  intentions  of  the  first  may  be 
upright,  as  they  may  on  the  contrary  be  culpable.  Tiic  views  of 
the  last  cannot  be  upright,  and  must  be  culpable.  But  the  truth 
is,  that  these  papers  are  not  addressed  to  persons  falling  under 
either  of  these  characters.  They  solicit  the  attention  of  those  on^^ 
ly,  who  add  to  a  sincere  zeal  for  the  happiness  of  their  country,  a 
temper  favourable  to  a  just  estimate  of  tlie  means  of  promoting  it. 

Persons  of  this  character  will  proceed  to  an  examination  of  the 
plan  submitted  by  the  convention,  not  only  without  a  disposition 
to  find  or  to  magnify  faults ;  but  will  see  the  propriety  of  reflect- 
ing, that  a  faultless  plan  was  not  to  be  expected.  Nor  will  they 
barely  make  allowances  for  the  errours  which  may  be  chargeable 
on  the  fallibility  to  which  the  convention,  as  a  body  of  men,  were 
liable  ;  but  will  keep  in  mind,  that  they  themselves  also  are  but 
men,  and  ought  not  to  assume  an  infallibility  in  rejudging  the  fal- 
lible opinions  of  others. 

With  equal  readiness  will  it  be  perceived,  that  besides  these  in- 
ducements to  candour,  many  allowances  ought  to  be  made  for  the 
difficulties  inherent  in  the  very  nature  of  the  undertaking  referred 
to  the  convention. 

The  novelty  of  the  undertaking  immediately  strikes  us.  It  has 
been  shown  in  the  course  of  these  papers,  that  the  existing  con- 
federation is  founded  on  principles  which  are  fallacious ;  that  we 
must  consequently  change  this  foundation,  and  with  it  the  super- 
structure resting  upon  it.  It  has  been  shown,  that  the  other  con- 
federacies which  could  be  consulted  as  precedents,  have  been  vitiat- 
ed by  the  same  erroneous  principles,  and  can  therefore  furnish  no 
other  light  than  that  of  beacons,  which  give  warning  of  the  course 
to  be  shunned,  without  pointing  out  that  which  ought  to  be  pursued. 
The  most  that  the  convention  could  do  in  such  a  situation,  was  to 
avoid  the  errours  suggested  by  the  past  experience  of  other 
countries,  as  well  as  of  our  own  ;  and  to  provide  a  convenient 
mode  of  rectifying  their  own  errours  as  future  experience  may 
unfold  them. 

Among  the  difficulties  encountered  by  the  convention,  a  very 
important  one  must  have  lain,  in  combining  the  requisite  stability 
and  energy  in  government,  with  the  inviolable  attention  due  to 
liberty,  and  to  the  republican  form.  Without  substantially  accom- 
plishing this  part  of  their  undertaking,  they  would  have  very  im- 
perfectly fulfilled  the  object  of  their  appointment,  or  the  expecta- 


176  THE  FEDERALIST. 

tion  of  tlie  public  :  yet  that  it  could  not  be   easily   accomplished, 
will  be  denied  by  no  one  who  is  unwilling  to  betray  his  ignorance 
of  the  subject.     Energy  in  government  is  essential  to  that  security 
a&lt;&gt;-:)inst  external  and  internal  dangers,  and  to  that  prompt  and  sal- 
utary execution  of  the  laws,  which  enter  into  the   very   definition 
of  good  government.     Stability  in  government  is  essential  to  na- 
tional character,  and  to  the  advantages  annexed  to  it,   as  well  as 
to  that  repose  and  confidence  in  the  minds  of  the   people,  which 
are  among  the  chief  blessings  of  civil  society.     An  irregular  and 
mutable  legislation  is  not  more  an  evil  in   itself,  than  it  is  odious 
to  the  people  ;  and  it  may  be  pronounced  with  assurance,  that  the 
people  of  this  country,  enlightened  as  they  are,  with  regard  to  the 
nature,  and  interested,  as  the  great  body  of  them   are,  in  the   ef- 
fects of  good  government,  will  never  be  satisfied,  till  some  remedy 
be  applied  to  the  vicissitudes  and  uncertainties,  which  characterize 
the  state  administrations.     On  comparing,   however,  these   valua- 
ble ingredients  with  the  vital  principles  of  liberty,  we  must  per- 
ceive at  once  the  difficulty  of  mingling  them  together  in  their  due 
proportions.    The  genius  of  republican  liberty  seems  to  demand  oa 
one  side,  not  only  that  all  power  should  be  derived   from  the  peo- 
ple;  but  that  those  entrusted  with  it  should  be  kept  in  dependence 
on  the   people,  by  a  short  duration  of  their  appointments;    and 
that  even  during  this  short  period,  the  trust  should  be  placed  not 
in  a  few,  but  in  a  number   of  hands.      Stability,  on  the  contrary, 
requires,  that  the  hands,  in  which  power  is  lodged,  should  continue 
for  a  length  of  time    the   same.      A  frequent  change  of  men  will 
result  from  a  frequent  return  of  elections  ;  and  a  frequent  change 
of  measures,  from  a   frequent  change   of  men  :    whilst   energy  of 
government  requires  not  only  a  certain  duration  of  power,  but  the 
execution  of  it  by  a  single  hand. 

How  far  the  convention  may  have  succeeded  in  this  part  of  their 
work,  will  better  appear  on  a  more  accurate  view  of  it.  From 
the  cursory  view  here  taken,  it  must  clearly  appear  to  have  been 
an  arduous  part. 

Not  less  arduous  must  have  been  the  task  of  marking  the  proper 
line  of  partition,  between  the  authority  of  the  general,  and  that 
of  the  state  governments.  Every  man  will  be  sensible  of  this  dif- 
ficulty, in  proportion  as  he  has  been  accustomed  to  contemplate 
and  discriminate  objects,  extensive  and  complicated  in  their  na- 
ture. The  faculties  of  the  mind  itself  have  never  yet  been  distin- 
guished and  defined,  with  satisfactory  precision,  by  all  the  eflibrts 
of  the  most  acute  and  metaphysical  philosophers.  Sense,  percep- 
tion, judgment,  desire,  volition,  memory,  imagination,   are  found 


THE  FEDERALIST.  177 

to  be  separated,  by  such  delicate  shades  and  minute  gradations, 
that  their  boundaries  have  eluded  the  most  subtle  investigations, 
and  remain  a  pregnant  source  of  ingenious  disquisition  and  con- 
troversy. The  boundaries  between  the  great  kingdoms  of  nature, 
and,  still  mote,  between  the  various  provinces,  and  lesser  portions, 
into  which  they  are  subdivided,  alFord  another  illustration  of  the 
same  important  truth.  The  most  sagacious  and  laborious  natural- 
ists have  never  yet  succeeded,  in  tracing  with  certainty  the  line 
which  separates  the  district  of  vegetable  life,  from  the  neighbour- 
ing region  of  unorganized  matter,  or  which  marks  the  termination 
of  the  former,  and  the  commencement  of  the  animal  empire.  A 
still  greater  obscurity  lies  in  the  distinctive  characters,  by  which 
the  objects  in  each  of  these  great  departments  of  nature  have 
been  arranged  and  assorted. 

When  we  pass  from  the  works  of  nature,  in  which  all  the  delin- 
eations are  perfectly  accurate,  and  appear  to  be  otherwise  only 
from  the  imperfection  of  the  eye  which  surveys  them,  to  the  insti- 
tutions of  man,  in  which  the  obscurity  arises  as  well  from  the  ob- 
ject itself,  as  from  the  organ  by  which  it  is  contemplated  ;  we  must 
perceive  the  necessity  of  moderating  still  further  our  expectations 
and  hopes  from  the  efforts  of  human  sagacity.  Experience  has 
instructed  us,  that  no  skill  in  the  science  of  government  has  yet 
been  able  to  discriminate  and  define,  with  sufficient  certainty,  its 
three  great  provinces,  the  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  ;  or 
even  the  privileges  and  powers  of  the  different  legislative  branches. 
Questions  daily  occur  in  the  course  of  practice,  which  prove  the 
obscurity  which  reigns  in  these  subjects,  and  which  puzzle  the 
greatest  adepts  in  political  science. 

The  experience  of  ages,  with  the  continued  and  combined  la- 
bours of  the  most  enlightened  legislators  and  jurists,  have  been 
equally  unsuccessful  in  delineating  the  several  objects  and  limits 
of  different  codes  of  laws,  and  different  tribunals  of  justice.  The 
precise  extent  of  the  common  law,  the  statute  law,  the  maritime 
law,  the  ecclesiastical  law,  the  law  of  corporations,  and  other  lo- 
cal laws  and  customs,  remains  still  to  be  clearly  and  finally  estab- 
lished in  Great  Britain,  where  accuracy  in  such  subjects  has  been 
more  industriously  pursued  than  in  any  other  part  of  the  world. 
The  jurisdiction  of  her  several  courts,  general  and  local,  of  law, 
of  equity,  of  admiralty,  6cc.,  is  not  less  a  source  of  frequent  and 
intricate  discussions,  sufficiently  denoting  the  indeterminate  limits 
by  which  they  are  respectively  circumscribed.  All  new  laws, 
though  penned  with  the  greatest  technical  skill,  and  passed  on  the 
fullest  and  most  mature  deliberation,  are  considered  as  more  or 
21 


178  THE  FEDERALIST. 

less  obscure  and  equivocal,  until  their  meaning  be  liquidated  and 
ascertained  by  a  series  of  particular  discussions  and  adjudications. 
Besides  the  obscurity  arisinji^  from  the  complexity  of  objects,  and 
the  imperfection  of  the  human  faculties,  the  medium  through 
which  the  conceptions  of  men  are  conveyed  to  each  other,  adds  a 
fresh  embarrassment.  The  use  of  words  is  to  express  ideas.  Per- 
spicuity therefore  requires,  not  only  that  the  ideas  should  be  dis- 
tinctly formed,  but  that  they  should  be  expressed  by  words  distinct- 
ly and  exclusively  appropriated  to  them.  But  no  language  is  so 
copious  as  to  supj)ly  words  and  phrases  for  every  complex  idea,  or 
so  correct  as  not  to  include  many,  equivocally  denoting  different 
ideas.  Hence  it  must  happen,  that  however  accurately  objects 
may  be  discriminated  in  themselves,  and  however  accurately  the 
discrimination  may  be  conceived,  the  definition  of  them  may  be 
rendered  inaccurate,  by  the  inaccuracy  of  the  terms  in  which  it  is 
delivered.  And  this  unavoidable  inaccuracy  must  be  greater  or 
less,  according  to  the  complexity  and  novelty  of  the  objects  defin- 
ed. When  tiie  Almighty  himself  condescends  to  address  mankind 
in  their  own  language,  his  meaning,  luminous  as  it  must  be,  is  ren- 
dered dim  and  doubtful,  by  the  cloudy  medium  through  which  it  is 
communicated. 

Here,  then,  are  three  sources  of  vague  and  incorrect  definitions; 
indistinctness  of  the  object,  imperfection  of  the  organ  of  percep- 
tion, inadequateness  of  the  vehicle  of  ideas.  Any  one  of  these  must 
produce  a  certain  degree  of  obscurity.  The  convention,  in  de- 
lineating the  boundary  between  the  federal  and  state  jurisdictions, 
must  have  experienced  the  full  effect  of  them  all. 

To  the  diflicuhics  already  mentioned,  may  be  added  the  inter- 
fering pretensions  of  the  larger  and  smaller  states.  We  cannot 
err,  in  supposing  that  the  former  would  contend  for  a  participation 
in  the  government,  fully  proportioned  to  their  superiour  wealth  and 
importance  ;  and  that  the  latter  would  not  be  less  tenacious  of 
the  equality  at  present  enjoyed  by  them.  We  may  well  suppose, 
that  neither  side  would  entirely  yield  to  the  other,  and  consequent- 
ly that  the  struggle  could  be  terminated  only  by  compromise.  It 
is  extremely  probable  also,  that  after  the  ratio  of  representation 
had  been  adjusted,  this  very  compromise  must  have  produced  a 
fresh  struggle  between  the  same  parties,  to  give  such  a  turn  to  the 
organization  of  the  government,  and  to  the  distribution  of  its  pow- 
ers, as  would  increase  the  importance  of  the  branches,  in  forming 
which  they  had  respectively  obtained  the  greatest  share  of  influ- 
ence. There  are  features  in  the  constitution  which  warrant  each 
of  these  suppositions  ;  and  as  far  as  either  of  them  is  well  found- 


THE  FEDEPwALTST.  179 

ed,  it  shows  that  the  convention  must  have  heen  compelled  to  sac- 
rifice theoretical  propriety,  to  the  force  of  extraneous  considera- 
tions. 

Nor  could  it  have  been  the  large  and  small  states  only,  which 
would  marshal  themselves  in  oppositiotj  to  each  other  on  various 
points.  Other  combinations,  resulting  from  a  difference  of  local 
position  and  policy,  must  have  created  additional  difficulties.  As 
every  state  may  be  divided  into  ditferent  districts,  and  its  citizens 
into  difterent  classes,  which  give  birth  to  contending  interests  and 
local  jealousies  ;  so  the  different  parts  of  the  United  States  are 
distinguished  from  each  other,  by  a  variety  of  circumstances, 
which  produce  a  like  effect  on  a  larger  sca!e^  And  although  this 
variety  of  interests,  for  reasons  sufficiently  explained  in  a  former 
paper,  may  have  a  salutary  influence  on  tiie  administration  of  the 
government,  when  formed;  yet  every  one  must  be  sensible  of  the 
contrary  influence,  which  must  have  been  experienced  in  the  task 
of  forming  it. 

Would  it  be  wonderful,  if  under  the  pressure  of  all  these  diffi- 
culties, the  convention  should  have  been  forced  into  some  devia- 
tions from  that  artificial  structure  and  regular  symmetry,  which 
an  abstract  view  of  the  subject  might  lead  an  ingenious  theorist  to 
bestow  on  a  constitution  planned  in  his  closet,  or  in  his  imagina- 
tion ?  The  real  wonder  is  that  so  many  difficulties  should  have 
been  surmounted  ;  and  surmounted  with  an  unanimity  almost  as 
unprecedented,  as  it  must  have  been  unexpected.  It  is  impossible 
for  any  man  of  candour  to  reflect  on  this  circumstance,  without 
partaking  of  the  astonishment.  It  is  impossible,  for  the  man  of 
pious  reflection,  not  to  perceive  in  it  a  finger  of  that  Almighty 
Hand,  which  has  been  so  frequently  and  signally  extended  to  our 
relief  in  the  critical    stages  of  the  revolution. 

We  liad  occasion,  in  a  former  paper,  to  take  notice  of  the  re- 
peated trials  which  have  been  unsuccessfully  made  in  the  United 
Netherlands,  for  reforming  the  baneful  and  notorious  vices  of  their 
constitution.  The  history  of  almost  all  the  great  councils  and 
consultations,  held  among  mankind  for  reconciling  their  discord- 
ant opinions,  assuaging  tlieir  mutual  jealousies,  and  adjusting  their 
respective  interests,  is  a  history  of  factions,  contentions,  and  dis- 
appointments ;  and  may  be  classed  among  the  most  dark  and  de- 
grading pictures,  which  display  the  infirmities  and  depravities  of 
the  human  character.  If,  in  a  few  scattered  instances,  a  brighter 
aspect  is  presented,  they  serve  only  as  exceptions  to  admonish  us 
of  the  general  truth ;  and  by  their  lustre  to  darken  the  gloom  of 
the  adverse  prospect,  to  which  they  are  contrasted.     In  revolving 


jgO  THE  FEDERALIST. 

the  causes  from  which  these  exceptions  result,  and  applying  them 
to  the  particular  instance  before  us,  we  are  necessarily  led  to  two 
important  conclusions.  The  first  is,  that  the  convention  must  have 
enjoyccl,  in  a  very  singular  degree,  an  exemption  from  the  pestilen- 
tial influence  of  party  animosities  ;  the  diseases  most  incident  to 
deliberative  bodies,  and  most  apt  to  contaminate  their  jiroceed- 
iiicrs.  The  second  conclusion  is,  that  all  the  deputations  compos- 
ing the  convenliou  were  either  satisfactorily  accommodated  by  the 
final  act ;  or  were  induced  to  accede  to  it,  by  a  deep  conviction 
of  the  necessity  of  sacrificing  private  opinions  and  partial  interests 
to  the  public  good ;  and  by  a  despair  of  seeing  this  necessity  di- 
minished by  delays,  or  by  new  experiments.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XXXVIII. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 

The  Subject  Continued,  and  the  Incoherence  of  the  Objections  to  the 
Plan  Exposed. 
It  is  not  a  little  remarkable,  that  in  every  case  reported  by  an- 
cient history,  in  which  government  has  been  established  with  de- 
liberation and  consent,  the  task,  of  framing  it  has  not  been  com- 
mitted to  an  assembly  of  men ;  but  has  been  performed  by  some 
individual  citizen,  of  preeminent  wisdom  and  approved  integrity. 

Minos,  we  learn  was  the  primitive  founder  of  the  government 
of  Crete  ;  as  Zaleucus  was  of  that  of  the  Locrians.  Theseus 
first,  and  after  him  Draco  and  Solon,  instituted  the  government  of 
Athens.  Lycurgus  was  the  lawgiver  of  Sparta.  The  foundation 
of  the  original  government  of  Rome  was  laid  by  Romulus  :  and 
the  work  completed  by  two  of  his  elective  successors,  Numa,  and 
Tullus  Hostiiius.  On  the  abolition  of  royalty,  the  consular  admin- 
istration was  substituted  by  Brutus,  who  stepped  forward  with  a 
project  for  such  a  reform,  which,  he  alleged,  had  been  prepared 
by  Servius  Ttdlius,  and  to  which  his  address  obtained  the  assent 
and  ratification  of  the  senate  and  people.  This  remark  is  applica- 
ble to  confederate  governments  also.  Amphyction,  we  are  told, 
was  the  author  of  that  which  bore  his  name.  The  Achaean  league 
received  its  first  birth  from  Achfeus,  and  its  second  from  Aratus. 

What  degree  of  agency  these  reputed  lawgivers  might  have  in 
their  respective  establishments,  or  how  far  they  might  be  clothed 
with  the  legitimate  authority  of  the  people,  cannot,  in  every  in- 
stance, be  ascertained.     In  some,  however,  the  proceeding  was 


THE  FEDERALIST.  181 

strictly  regular.  Draco  appears  to  have  been  entrusted  by  the 
people  of  Athens,  with  indefinite  powers  to  reform  its  government 
and  laws.  And  Solon,  according  to  Plutarch,  was  in  a  manner 
compelled,  by  the  universal  snfl'rage  of  his  fellow-citizens,  to  take 
upon  him  the  sole  and  absolute  power  of  new  modelling  the  con- 
stitution. The  proceedings  under  Lycurgus  were  less  reo-ular : 
but  as  far  as  the  advocates  for  a  regular  reform  could  prevail,  they 
all  turned  their  eyes  towards  the  single  efforts  of  that  celebrated 
patriot  and  sage,  instead  of  seeking  to  bring  about  a  revolution, 
by  the  intervention  of  a  deliberative  body  of  citizens. 

Whence'could  it  have  proceeded,  that  a  people,  jealous  as  the 
Greeks  were  of  their  liberty,  should  so  far  abandon  the  rules  of 
caution,  as  to  place  their  destiny  in  the  hands  of  a  single  citizen  1 
Whence  could  it  have  proceeded  that  the  Athenians,  a  people  who 
would  not  suffer  an  army  to  be  commanded  by  fewer  than  ten  gen- 
erals, and  who  required  no  other  proof  of  danger  to  their  liberties 
than  the  illustrious  merit  of  a  fellow-citizen,  should  consider  one 
illustrious  citizen  as  a  more  eligible  depository  of  the  fortunes  of 
themselves  and  their  posterity,  than  a  select  body  of  citizens,  from 
whose  common  deliberations  more  wisdom,  as  well  as  more  safety, 
might  have  been  expected  ]  These  questions  cannot  be  fully  an- 
swered, without  supposing  that  the  fears  of  discord  and  disunion 
among  a  number  of  counsellors,  exceeded  the  apprehension  of 
treachery  or  incapacity  in  a  single  individual.  History  informs 
us  likewise,  of  the  difficulties  with  which  these  celebrated  reform- 
ers had  to  contend  ;  as  well  as  of  the  expedients  which  they  were 
obliged  to  employ,  in  order  to  carry  their  reforms  into  effect.  So- 
lon, who  seems  to  have  indulged  a  more  temporizing  policy,  con- 
fessed that  he  had  not  given  to  his  countrymen  the  government 
best  suited  to  their  happiness,  but  most  tolerable  to  their  prejudi- 
ces. And  Lycurgus,  more  true  to  his  object,  was  under  the  ne- 
cessity of  mixing  a  portion  of  violence  with  the  authority  of  su- 
perstition ;  and  of  securing  his  final  success,  by  a  voluntary  re- 
nunciation, first  of  his  country,  and  then  of  his  life. 

If  these  lessons  teach  us,  on  one  baud,  to  admire  the  improve- 
ment made  by  America  on  the  ancient  mode  of  preparing  and 
establishing  regular  plans  of  government ;  they  serve  not  less  on 
the  other,  to  admonish  us  of  the  hazards  and  difficulties  incident 
to  such  experiments,  and  of  the  great  imprudence  of  unnecessari- 
ly multiplying  them. 

Is  it  an  unreasonable  conjecture,  that  the  errours  which  may  be 
contained  in  the  plan  of  the  convention,  are  such  as  have  resulted, 
rather  from  the  defect  of  antecedent  experience  on  this  coraplicat- 


182  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ed  and  difficult  subject,  than  from  a  want  of  accuracy  or  care  in 
the  investigation  of  it ;  and,  consequently,  such  as  will  not  be  as- 
certained until  an  actual  trial  shall  have  pointed  them  out  ?  This 
conjecture  is  rendered  probable,  not  only  by  many  considerations 
of  a  general  natuie,  but  by  the  particular  case  of  the  articles  of 
confederation. 

It  is  observable,  that  among  the  numerous  objections  and  amend- 
ments suggested  by  the  several  slates,  when  these  articles  were 
submitted  for  tlieir  ratification,  not  one  is  found,  which  alludes  to 
the  great  and  radical  errour,  which  on  actual  trial  has  discovered 
itself.  And  if  we  except  the  observations  which  New  Jersey  vras 
led  to  make,  rather  by  her  local  situation,  than  by  her  peculiar 
foresight,  it  may  be  questioned  whether  a  single  suggestion  was  of 
sufficient  moment  to  justify  a  revision  of  the  system.  There  is 
abundant  reason  nevertheless  to  suppose,  that  immaterial  as  these 
objections  were,  they  would  have  been  adhered  to  with  a  very  dan- 
gerous inflexibility  in  some  states,  had  not  a  zeal  for  their  opinions 
and  supposed  interests  been  stifled  by  the  more  powerful  sentiment 
of  self-preservation.  One  state,  we  may  remember,  persisted  for 
several  years  in  refusing  her  concurrence,  although  the  enemy  re- 
mained the  whole  period  at  our  gates,  or  rather  in  the  very  bowels 
of  our  country.  Nor  was  her  pliancy  in  the  end  eftected  by  a  less 
motive,  than  the  fear  of  being  chargeable  with  protracting  the 
public  calamities,  and  endangering  the  event  of  the  contest.  Ev- 
ery candid  reader  will  make  the  proper  reflections  on  these  im- 
portant facts. 

A  patient,  who  finds  his  disorder  daily  growing  worse,  and  that 
an  efficacious  remedy  can  no  longer  be  delayed  without  extreme 
danger;  after  coolly  revolving  his  situation,  and  the  characters  of 
different  physicians,  selects  and  calls  in  such  of  them  as  he  judges 
most  capable  of  administering  relief,  and  best  entitled  to  his  con- 
fidence. The  physicians  attend  :  the  case  of  the  patient  is  care- 
fully examined.... a  consultation  is  held  :  they  are  unanimously 
agreed,  that  the  symptoms  are  critical  ;  but  that  the  case,  with 
proper  and  timely  relief,  is  so  far  from  being  desperate,  that  it 
may  be  made  to  issue  in  an  improvement  of  his  constitution. 
They  are  equally  unanimous  in  prescribing  the  remedy,  by  which 
this  happy  effect  is  to  be  produced.  The  prescription  is  no  sooner 
made  known,  however,  than  a  number  of  persons  interpose,  and, 
without  denying  the  reality  or  danger  of  the  disorder,  assure  the 
patient  that  the  prescription  will  be  poison  to  his  constitution,  and 
forbid  him  under  pain  of  certain  death,  to  make  use  of  it.  Might 
not  the  patient  reasonably  demand,  before  he  ventured  to  foliovir 


THE  FEDERALIST.  183 

this  advice,  that  the  authors  of  it  should  at  least  agree  among 
themselves  on  some  other  remedy  to  be  substituted?  And  if  he 
found  them  differing  as  much  from  one  another,  as  from  his  first 
counsellors,  would  he  not  act  prudently,  in  trying  the  experiment 
unanimously  recommended  by  the  latter,  rather  than  in  hearken- 
ing to  those  who  could  neither  deny  the  necessity  of  a  speedy 
remedy,  nor  agree  in  proposing  one  ? 

Such  a  patient,  and  such  a  situation,  is  America  at  this  moment. 
She  has  been  sensible  of  her  malady.  She  has  obtained  a  regular 
and  unanimous  advice  from  men  of  her  own  deliberate  choice. 
And  she  is  warned  by  others  against  following  this  advice,  under 
pain  of  the  most  fatal  consequences.  Do  the  monitors  deny  the 
reality  of  her  danger?  No.  Do  they  deny  the  necessity  of  some 
speedy  and  powerful  remedy  ?  No.  Are  they  agreed,  are  any 
two  of  them  agreed,  in  their  objections  to  the  remedy  proposed, 
or  in  the  proper  one  to  be  substituted  ?  Let  them  speak  for  them- 
selves. 

This  one  tells  us,  that  the  proposed  constitution  ought  to  be  re- 
jected, because  it  is  not  a  confederation  of  the  states,  but  a  gov- 
ernment over  individuals.  Another  admits,  that  it  ought  to  be  a 
government  over  individuals,  to  a  certain  extent,  but  by  no  means  to 
the  extent  proposed.  A  third  does  not  object  to  the  government  over 
individuals,  or  to  the  extent  proposed,  but  to  the  want  of  a  bill  of 
rights.  A  fourth  concurs  in  the  absolute  necessity  of  a  bill  of  rights, 
but  contends  that  it  ought  to  be  declaratory,  not  of  the  personal 
rights  of  individuals,  but  of  the  rights  reserved  to  the  states  in  their 
political  capacity.  A  fifth  is  of  opinion,  that  a  bill  of  rights  of  any 
sort  would  be  superfluous  and  misplaced,  and  that  the  plan  would 
be  unexceptionable,  but  for  the  fatal  power  of  regulating  the  times 
and  places  of  election.  An  objector  in  a  large  state  exclaims 
loudly  against  the  unreasonable  eqtiality  of  representation  in  the 
senate.  An  objector  in  a  small  state  is  equally  loud  against  the 
dangerous  inequality  in  the  htiuse  of  representatives.  From  this 
quarter,  we  are  alarmed  with  the  amazing  expense,  from  the  num- 
ber of  persons  who  are  to  administer  the  new  government.  From 
another  quarter,  and  sometimes  from  the  same  quarter,  on  another 
occasion,  the  cry  is,  that  the  congress  will  be  but  a  shadow  of  a  rep- 
resentation, and  that  the  government  would  be  far  less  objectiona- 
ble, if  the  number  and  the  expense  were  doubled.  A  patriot  in  a 
state  that  does  not  import  or  export,  discerns  insuperable  objec- 
tions against  the  power  of  direct  taxation.  The  patriotic  adver- 
sary in  a  state  of  great  exports  and  imports,  is  not  less  dissatisfied 
that  the  whole  burthen  of  taxes  may  be  thrown  on  consumption- 


184  THE  FEDERALIST. 

This  politician  discovers  in  the  constitution  a  direct  and  irresisti- 
ble tendency  to  monarchy :  that  is  equally  sure,  it  will  end  in  aris- 
tocracy.    Another  is  puzzled  to  say  which  of  these  shapes  it  will 
ultimately  assume,  but  sees  clearly  it  must  be  one  or  other  of  them  : 
whilst  a  fourth  is  not  wanting,  who  with  no  less  confidence  affirms, 
that  the  constitution  is  so  far  from  having  a  bias  towards  either  of 
these  dangers,  that  the  weight  on  that  side  will  not  be  sufficient  to 
keep  it  upright  and  firm  against  its  opposite   propensities.     With 
another  class  of  adversaries  to  the  constitution,  the  language   is, 
that  the  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  departments,  are  my 
termixed  in  such  a  manner,  as  to  contradict  all  the  ideas  of  regu- 
lar government,  and  all  the  requisite  precautions  in  favour  of  lib- 
erty.    Whilst  this  objection   circulates  in   vague  and   general  ex- 
pressions, there  are  not  a  few  who  lend  their   sanction  to  it.     Let 
each  one  come  forward  with  his  particular  explanation,  and  scarce- 
ly any  two  are  exactly  agreed  on  the  subject.     In  the  eyes  of  one, 
the  junction  of  the  senate  with  the   president,  in  the   responsible 
function  of  appointing  to  offices,  instead  of  vesting  this  executive 
power  in  the  executive   alone,  is  the  vicious  part  of  the  organiza- 
tion.    To  another,  the  exclusion  of  the  house  of  representatives, 
whose  numbers  alone   could  be  a  due  security  against  corruption 
and  partiality  in  the  exercise  of  such  a  power,  is  equally  obnoxious. 
Willi  another,  the  admission  of  the  president  into  any  share  of  a 
power,  which  must  ever  be  a  dangerous  engine  in  the  hands  of  the 
executive  magistrate,  is  an  unpardonable  violation  of  the  maxims 
of  republican  jealousy.     No  part  of  the   arrangement,   according 
to  some,  is  more  inadmissible  than  the   trial  of  impeachments  by 
the  senate,  which  is  alternately  a  member  both  of  the  legislative 
and  executive  departments,  when  this  power  so  evidently  belonged 
to  the  judiciary  department.      We  concur  fully,  reply  others,  in 
the  objection  to  this  part  of  the  plan,  but  we  can  never  agree  that 
a  reference  of  impeachments  to  the  judiciary  authority  would  be 
an  amendment  of  the  errour  :  our  principal  dislike  to  the  organiza- 
tion, arises  from  the  extensive  powers  already  lodged  in  that  de- 
partment.    Even  among  the  zealous  patrons  of  a  council  of  state, 
the  most   irreconcilable   variance   is   discovered,  concerning   the 
mode  in  which  it  ought  to  be  constituted.     The   demand  of  one 
gentleman  is,  that  the  council  should  consist  of  a  small  number, 
to  be  appointed  by  the  most  numerous  branch  of  the  legislature. 
Another  would  prefer  a  larger  number,  and  considers  it  as  a  fun- 
damental condition,  that  the  appointment  should  be  made  by  the 
president  himself. 

As  it  can  give  no  umbrage  to  the  writers  against  the  plan  of  the 


THE  FEDERALIST.  185 

federal  constitution,  let  us  suppose,  that  as  they  are  the  most  zeal- 
ous, so  they  are  also  the  most  sagacious,  of  those  who  think  the 
late  convention  were  unequal  to  the  task  assigned  them,  and  that 
a  wiser  and  better  plan  might  and  ought  to  be  substituted.  Let  us 
further  suppose,  that  their  country  should  concur,  both  in  this  fa- 
vourable opinion  of  their  merits,  and  in  their  unfavourable  opin- 
ion of  the  convention  ;  and  should  accordingly  proceed  to  form 
them  into  a  second  convention,  with  full  powers,  and  for  the  ex- 
press purpose  of  revising  and  remoulding  the  work  of  the  first. 
Were  the  experiment  to  be  seriously  made,  though  it  requires  some 
effort  to  view  it  seriously  even  in  fiction,  I  leave  it  to  be  decided 
by  the  sample  of  opinions  just  exhibited,  whether,  with  all  their 
enmity  to  their  predecessors,  they  would,  in  any  one  point,  depart 
so  widely  from  their  example,  as  in  the  discord  and  ferment  that 
would  mark  their  own  deliberations  ;  and  whether  the  constitu- 
tion, now  before  the  public,  would  not  stand  as  fair  a  chance  for 
immortality,  as  Lycurgus  gave  to  that  of  Sparta,  by  making  its 
change  to  depend  on  his  own  return  from  exile  and  death,  if  it 
were  to  be  immediately  adopted,  and  were  to  continue  in  force, 
not  until  a  better,  but  until  another  should  be  agreed  upon  by 
this  new  assembly  of  lawgivers. 

It  is  a  matter  both  of  wonder  and  regret,  that  those  who  raise 
so  many  objections  against  the  new  constitution,  should  never  call 
to  mind  the  defects  of  that  which  is  to  be  exchanged  for  it.  It  is  not 
necessary  that  the  former  should  be  perfect :  it  is  sufficient  that  the 
latter  is  more  imperfect.  No  man  would  refuse  to  give  brass  for 
silver  or  gold,  because  the  latter  had  some  alloy  in  it.  No  man 
would  refuse  to  quit  a  shattered  and  tottering  habitation,  for  a  firm 
and  commodious  building  because  the  latter  had  not  a  porch  to  it; 
or  because  some  of  the  rooms  might  be  a  little  larger  or  smaller, 
or  the  ceiling  a  little  higher  or  lower  than  his  fancy  would  have 
planned  them.  But  waving  illustrations  of  this  sort,  is  it  not  man- 
ifest, that  most  of  the  capital  objections  urged  against  the  new 
system,  lie  with  tenfold  weight  against  the  existing  confederation  ? 
Is  an  indefinite  power  to  raise  money  dangerous  in  the  hands  of 
a  federal  government  ?  The  present  congress  can  make  requisi- 
tions to  any  amount  they  please  ;  and  the  states  are  constitution- 
ally bound  to  furnish  them.  They  can  emit  bills  of  credit  as  long 
as  they  will  pay  for  the  paper  :  they  can  borrow  both  abroad  and  at 
home,  as  long  as  a  shilling  will  be  lent.  Is  an  indefinite  power  to 
raise  troops  dangerous  1  The  confederation  gives  to  congress 
that  power  also  :  and  they  have  already  begun  to  make  use  of  it. 
Is  it  improper  and  unsafe  to  intermix  the  different  powers  of  gov- 


186  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ernment  in  the  same  body  of  men  ?  Congress,  a  single  body  of 
men,  are  the  sole  depository  of  all  the  federal  powers.  Is  it  par- 
ticularly dangerous  to  give  the  keys  of  the  treasury,  and  the  com- 
mand of  the  army,  into  the  Fame  hands  1  The  confederation 
places  them  both  in  the  hand'?  of  cc"?Tess.  Is  a  bill  of  rights  es- 
sential to  liberty  ?  The  confederation  has  no  bill  of  rights.  Is  it 
an  objection  against  the  new  constitution,  that  it  empowers  the 
senate,  with  the  concurrence  of  the  executive,  to  make  treaties 
which  are  to  be  the  laws  of  the  land  ?  The  existing  congress, 
without  any  such  control,  can  make  treaties  which  they  themselves 
have  declared,  and  most  of  the  states  have  recognized,  to  be  the 
supreme  law  of  the  land.  Is  the  importation  of  slaves  permitted 
by  the  new  constitution  for  twenty  years?  By  the  old  it  is  per- 
mitted forever. 

I  shall  be  told,  that  however  dangerous  this  mixture  of  powers 
may  be  in  theory,  it  is  rendered  harmless  by  the  dependence  of 
congress  on  the  states  for  the  means  of  carrying  them  into  prac- 
tice :  that  however  large  the  mass  of  powers  may  be,  it  is  in  fact 
a  lifeless  mass.  Then,  say  I,  in  the  first  place,  that  the  confedera- 
tion is  chargeable  with  the  still  greater  folly,  of  declaring  certain 
powers  in  the  federal  government  to  be  absolutely  necessary,  and 
at  the  same  time  rendering  them  absolutely  nugatory ;  and,  in  the 
next  place,  that  if  il.e  union  is  to  continue,  and  no  better  govern- 
ment be  substituted,  eifective  powers  must  either  be  granted  to,  or 
assumed  by,  the  existing  congress ;  in  either  of  which  events,  the 
contrast  just  stated  "ill  hold  good.  But  this  is  not  all.  Out  of 
this  lifeless  mass,  l-as  already  grown  an  excrescent  power,  which 
tends  to  realize  all  the  dam  ers  that  can  be  apprehended  from  a 
defective  construction  of  tiie  supreme  government  of  the  tinion.  It 
is  now  no  longer  a  point  of  speculation  and  hope,  that  the  western 
territory  is  a  mine  of  vast  wealth  to  the  United  States  :  and  al- 
though it  is  not  of  such  a  nature  as  to  extricate  them  from  their 
present  distresses,  or  for  some  time  to  come  to  yield  any  regular 
supplies  for  the  public  expenses;  yet  must  it  hereafter  be  able, 
under  proper  management,  both  to  eftect  a  gradual  discharge  of 
the  domestic  debt,  and  to  furnish,  for  a  certain  period,  liberal  trib- 
utes to  the  federal  treasury.  A  very  large  proportion  of  this  fund 
has  been  already  surrendered  by  individual  states;  and  it  may 
with  reason  be  expected,  that  the  remaining  states  will  not  persist 
in  withholding  similar  proofs  of  their  equity  and  generosity.  We 
may  calculate,  therefore,  that  a  rich  and  fertile  country,  of  an 
area  equal  to  the  inhabited  extent  of  tlie  United  States,  will  soon 
become  a  national  stock.     Congress  have  assumed  the  administra- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  167 

tion  of  this  stock.  They  have  begun  to  render  it  productive. 
Congress  have  undertaken  to  do  more  :....the7  have  proceeded  to 
form  new  states  ;  to  erect  temporary  governments  ;  to  appoint  offi- 
cers for  them  ;  and  to  prescribe  the  conditions  on  which  such  states 
shall  be  admitted  into  the  confederacy.  All  this  has  been  done  : 
and  done  without  the  least  colour  of  constitutional  authority.  Yet 
no  blame  has  been  whispered  :  no  alarm  has  been  sounded.  A 
GREAT  and  INDEPENDENT  fund  of  rcvcuue  is  passing  into  tiie  hands 
of  a  SINGLE  BODY  of  men,  who  can  raise  troops  to  an  indefinite 
NUMBER,  and  appropriate  money  to  their  support  for  an  indefi- 
nite PERIOD  OF  time.  And  yet  there  are  men,  who  have  not  only 
been  silent  spectators  of  this  prospect,  but  who  are  advocates  for 
the  system  which  exhibits  it ;  and,  at  the  same  time,  urge  against 
the  new  system  the  objections  which  we  have  heard.  Would  they 
not  act  with  more  consistency,  in  urging  the  establishment  of  the 
latter,  as  no  less  necessary  to  guard  the  union  against  the  future 
powers  and  resources  of  a  body  constructed  like  the  existing  con- 
gress, than  to  save  it  from  the  dangers  threatened  by  the  present 
impotency  of  that  assembly  1 

I  mean  not,  by  any  thing  here  said,  to  throw  censure  on  the 
measures  which  have  been  pursued  by  congress.  I  am  sensible 
they  could  not  have  done  otherwise.  The  public  interest,  the  ne- 
cessity of  the  case,  imposed  upon  them  the  task  of  overleaping 
their  constitutional  limits.  But  is  not  the  fact  an  alarming  proof 
of  the  danger  resulting  from  a  government,  which  does  not  pos- 
sess regular  powers  commensurate  to  its  objects  1  A  dissolution, 
or  usurpation,  is  the  dreadful  dilemma  to  which  it  is  continually 
exposed.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XXXIX. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 


The  Conformity  of  the  Plan  to  Republican  Principles :  an   Objec- 
tion in  Respect  to  the  Powers  of  the  Convention,  Examined. 

The  last  paper  having  concluded  the  observations,  which  were 
meant  to  introduce  a  candid  survey  of  the  plan  of  government  re- 
ported by  the  convention,  we  now  proceed  to  the  execution  of  that 
part  of  our  undertaking. 

The  first  question  that  offers  itself  is,  whether  the  general  form 
and  aspect  of  the  government  be  strictly  republican  ?  It  is  evi- 
dent that  no  other  form  would  be  reconcilable  with  the  genius 
of  the  people  of  America ;  with  the  fundamental  principles  of  the 


188  THE  FEDERALIST. 

revolution  ;  or  with  that  honourable  determination  wliich  animates 
every  votary  of  freedom,  to  rest  all  our  political  experiments  on 
the  capacity  of  mankind  for  self-government.  If  the  plan  of  the 
convention,  therefore,  be  found  to  depart  from  the  republican  char- 
acter, its  advocates  must  abandon  it  as  no  longer  defensible. 

What,  then,  are  the  distinctive  characters  of  the  republican 
form  ?  Were  an  answer  to  this  question  to  be  sought,  not  by  re- 
curring to  principles,  but  in  the  application  of  the  term  by  politi- 
cal writers,  to  the  constitutions  of  different  states,  no  satisfactory 
one  would  ever  be  found.  Holland,  in  which  no  particle  of  the 
supreme  authority  is  derived  from  the  people,  has  passed  almost 
universally  under  the  denomination  of  a  republic.  The  same  title 
has  been  bestowed  on  Venice,  where  absolute  power  over  the  great 
body  of  tlie  people  is  exercised,  in  the  most  absolute  manner,  by 
a  small  body  of  hereditary  nobles.  Poland,  wliich  is  a  mixture  of 
aristocracy  and  of  monarchy  in  their  worst  forms,  has  been  digni- 
fied with  the  same  appellation.  The  government  of  England, 
which  has  one  republican  branch  only,  combined  with  a  heredita- 
ry aristocracy  and  monarchy,  has,  with  equal  impropriety,  been 
frequently  placed  on  the  list  of  republics.  These  examples,  which 
are  nearly  as  dissimilar  to  each  other  as  to  a  genuine  republic, 
show  the  extreme  inaccuracy  with  which  the  term  has  been  used 
in  political  disquisitions. 

If  we  resort,  for  a  criterion,  to  the  different  principles  on  which 
different  forms  of  government  are  established,  we  may  define  a 
republic  to  be,  or  at  least  may  bestow  that  name  on,  a  government 
which  derives  all  its  powers  directly  or  indirectly  from  the  great 
body  of  the  people,  and  is  administered  by  persons  holding  their 
offices  during  pleasure,  for  a  limited  period,  or  during  good  be- 
haviour. It  is  essential  to  such  a  government,  that  it  be  derived 
from  the  great  body  of  the  society,  not  from  an  inconsiderable 
pi-oportion,  or  a  favoured  class  of  it ;  otherwise  a  handful  of  ty- 
rannical nobles,  exercising  their  oppressions  by  a  delegation  of 
their  powers,  might  aspire  to  the  rank  of  republicans,  and  claim 
for  their  government  the  honourable  title  of  republic.  It  is  syf- 
Jicient  for  such  a  government,  that  the  persons  administering  it  be 
appointed,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  by  the  people  ;  and  that 
they  hold  their  appointments  by  either  of  the  tenures  just  specifi- 
ed ;  otherwise  every  government  in  the  United  States,  as  well  as 
every  other  popular  government  that  has  been  or  can  be  well  or- 
ganized or  well  executed,  would  be  degraded  from  the  republican 
character.  According  to  the  constitution  of  every  state  in  the 
union,  some  or  other  of  the  officers  of  government  are  appointed 


THE  FEDERALIST.  189 

indirectly  only  by  the  people.  According  to  most  of  them,  the 
chief  magistrate  himself  is  so  appointed.  And  according  to  one, 
this  mode  of  appointment  is  extended  to  one  of  the  coordinate 
branches  of  the  legishiture.  According  to  all  the  constitutions 
also,  the  tenure  of  the  highest  offices  is  extended  to  a  definite  pe- 
riod, and  in  many  instances,  both  within  the  legislative  and  execu- 
tive departments,  to  a  period  of  years.  According  to  the  pro- 
visions of  most  of  the  constitutions,  again,  as  well  as  according  to 
the  most  respectable  and  received  opinions  on  the  subject,  the 
members  of  the  judiciary  department  are  to  retain  their  offices  by 
the  firm  tenure  of  good  behaviour. 

On  comparing  the  constitution  planned  by  the  convention,  with 
the  standard  here  fixed,  we  perceive  at  once,  that  it  is,  in  the  most 
rigid  sense,  conformable  to  it.  The  house  of  representatives,  like 
that  of  one  branch  at  least  of  all  the  state  legislatures,  is  elected 
immediately  by  the  great  body  of  the  people.  The  senate,  like 
the  present  congress,  and  the  senate  of  Maryland,  derives  its  ap- 
pointment indirectly  from  the  people.  The  president  is  indirectly 
derived  from  the  choice  of  the  people,  according  to  the  example 
in  most  of  the  states.  Even  the  judges,  with  all  other  officers  of 
the  union,  will,  as  in  the  several  states,  be  the  choice,  though  a  re- 
mote choice,  of  the  people  themselves.  The  duration  of  the  ap- 
pointments is  equally  conformable  to  the  republican  standard,  and 
to  the  model  of  the  state  constitutions.  The  house  of  representa- 
tives is  periodically  elective,  as  in  all  the  states  ;  and  for  the  peri- 
od of  two  years,  as  in  the  state  of  South  Carolina.  The  senate 
is  elective,  for  the  period  of  six  years  ;  which  is  but  one  year 
more  than  the  period  of  the  senate  of  Maryland  ;  and  but  two 
more  than  that  of  the  senates  of  New  York  and  Virginia.  The 
president  is  to  continue  in  office  for  the  period  of  four  years  ;  as 
in  New  York  and  Delaware,  the  chief  magistrate  is  elected  for 
three  years,  and  in  South  Carolina  for  two  years.  In  the  other 
states  the  election  is  annual.  In  several  of  the  states,  however, 
no  explicit  provision  is  made  for  the  impeachment  of  the  chief 
magistrate.  And  in  Delaware  and  Virginia,  he  is  not  impeacha- 
ble till  out  of  office.  The  president  of  the  United  States  is  im- 
peachable at  any  time  during  his  continuance  in  office.  The  ten- 
ure by  which  the  judges  are  to  hold  their  places,  is,  as  it  unques- 
tionably ought  to  be,  that  of  good  behaviour.  The  tenure  of  the 
ministerial  offices  generally,  will  be  a  subject  of  legal  regulation, 
conformably  to  the  reason  of  the  case,  and  the  example  of  the 
state  constitutions. 

Could  any  further  proof  be  required  of  the  republican  complex- 


190  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ion  of  this  system,  the  most  decisive  one  might  be  found  in  its  ab- 
sohite  prohibition  of  titles  of  nobility,  both  under  the  federal  and 
the  state  governments ;  and  in  its  express  guarantee  of  the  repub- 
lican form  to  each  of  the  latter. 

But  it  was  not  sufficient,  say  the  a  l.crsaries  of  the  proposed 
constitution,  for  the  convention  to  aaiicre  to  the  republican  form. 
They  ought,  with  equal  care,  to  have  preserved  the  federal  form, 
which  regards  the  union  as  a  confederacy  of  sovereign  states  ;  in- 
stead of  which,  they  have  framed  a  national  government,  which 
regards  the  union  as  a  consolidation  of  the  states.  And  it  is  ask- 
ed, by  what  authority  this  bold  and  radical  innovation  was  under- 
taken 1  The  handle  which  has  been  made  of  this  objection  re- 
quires, that  it  should  be  examined  with  some  precision. 

Without  inquiring  into  the  accuracy  of  the  distinction  on  which 
the  objection  is  founded,  it  will  be  necessary  to  a  just  estimate  of 
its  force,  first,  to  ascertain  the  real  character  of  the  government 
in  question  ;  secondly,  to  inquire  how  far  the  convention  were  au- 
thorized to  propose  such  a  government  ;  and  thirdly,  how  far  the 
duty  they  owed  to  their  country,  could  supply  any  defect  of  reg- 
ular authority. 

First.  In  order  to  ascertain  the  real  character  of  the  govern- 
ment, it  may  be  considered  in  relation  to  the  foundation  on  which 
it  is  to  be  established  ;  to  the  sources  from  which  its  ordinary  pow- 
ers are  to  be  drawn  ;  to  the  operation  of  those  powers ;  to  the  ex- 
tent of  them  ;  and  to  the  authority  by  which  future  changes  in  the 
government  are  to  be  introduced. 

On  examining  the  first  relation,  it  appears,  on  one  hand,  that 
the  constitution  is  to  be  founded  on  the  assent  and  ratification  of 
the  people  of  America,  given  by  deputies  elected  for  the  special 
purpose  ;  but  on  the  other,  that  this  assent  and  ratification  is  to 
be  given  by  the  people,  not  as  individuals  composing  one  entire 
nation,  but  as  composing  the  distinct  and  independent  states  to 
which  they  respectively  belong.  It  is  to  be  the  assent  and  ratifi- 
cation of  the  several  states,  derived  from  the  supreme  authority  in 
each  state. ...the  authority  of  the  people  themselves.  The  act, 
therefore,  establishing  the  constitution,  will  not  be  a  national,  but 
2i  federal  act. 

That  it  will  be  a  federal,  and  not  a  national  act,  as  these  terms 
are  understood  by  the  objectors,  the  act  of  the  ppople,  as  forming 
so  many  independent  states,  not  as  forming  one  aggregate  nation, 
is  obvious  from  this  single  consideration,  that  it  is  to  result  neither 
from  the  decision  of  a  majority  of  the  people  of  the  union,  nor 
from  that  of  a  majority  of  the  states.     It  must  result  from  the 


THE  FEDERALIST.  191 

unanimous  assent  of  the  several  states  that  are  parties  to  it,  differ- 
ing no  otherwise  from  their  ordinary  assent  than  in  its  being  ex- 
pressed, not  by  the  legislative  authority,  but  by  that  of  the  people 
themselves.  Were  the  people  regarded  in  this  transaction  as  form- 
ing one  nation,  the  will  of  the  majority  of  the  whole  people  of  the 
United  States  would  bind  the  minority ;  in  the  same  manner  as 
the  majority  in  each  state  must  bind  the  minority  ;  and  the  will  of 
the  majority  must  be  determined  either  by  a  comparison  of  the  in- 
dividual votes,  or  by  considering  the  will  of  the  majority  of  the 
states,  as  evidence  of  the  will  of  a  majority  of  the  people  of  the 
United  States.  Neither  of  these  rules  has  been  adopted.  Each 
state,  in  ratifyiiig  the  constitution,  is  considered  as  a  sovereign 
body,  independent  of  all  others,  and  only  to  be  bound  by  its  own 
voluntary  act.  In  this  relation,  then,  the  new  constitution  will,  if 
established,  be  a  federal,  and  not  a  national  constitution. 

The  next  relation  is,  to  the  sources  from  which  the  ordinary 
powers  of  government  are  to  be  derived.  The  house  of  represen- 
tatives will  derive  its  powers  from  the  people  of  America,  and  the 
people  will  be  represented  in  the  some  proportion,  and  on  the 
same  principle,  as  they  are  in  a  legislature  of  a  particular  state. 
So  far  the  government  is  7iational,  uoi  federal.  The  senate,  on  the 
other  hand,  will  derive  its  powers  from  the  states,  as  political  and 
coeqnal  societies  ;  and  tliese  will  be  represented  on  tiie  principle 
of  equality  in  the  senate,  as  they  now  are  in  the  existing  congress. 
So  far  the  government  is  federal,  not  national.  The  executive 
power  will  be  derived  from  a  very  compound  source.  The  imme- 
diate election  of  the  president  is  to  be  made  by  the  states  in  their 
political  characters.  The  votes  allotted  to  them  are  in  a  com- 
pound ratio,  which  considers  them  partly  as  distinct  and  coequal 
societies  ;  partly  as  unequal  members  of  the  same  society.  The 
eventual  election,  again,  is  to  be  made  by  that  branch  of  the  leg- 
islature which  consists  of  the  national  representatives  ;  but  in  this 
particular  act,  they  are  to  be  thrown  into  the  form  of  individual 
delegations,  from  so  many  distinct  and  coequal  bodies  politic. 
From  this  aspect  of  the  government,  it  appears  to  be  of  a  mix- 
ed character,  presenting  at  least  as  many  federal  as  national 
features. 

The  difference  between  a  federal  and  national  government,  as 
it  relates  to  the  operation  of  the  government,  is,  by  the  adversaries 
of  the  plan  of  the  convention,  supposed  to  consist  in  this,  that  in 
the  former,  the  powers  operate  on  the  political  bodies  composing 
the  confederacy,  in  their  political  capacities  ;  in  the  latter,  on  the 
individual  citizens  composing  the  nation,  in  their  individual  capaci- 


192  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ties.  On  trying  the  constitution  by  this  criterion,  it  falls  under 
the  national,  not  the  federal  character  ;  though  perhaps  not  so 
completely  as  has  been  uiulerstood.  In  several  cases,  and  par- 
ticularly in  the  trial  of  controversies  to  which  states  may  be  par- 
ties, they  must  be  viewed  and  proceeded  against  in  their  collective 
and  political  capacities  only.  But  the  operation  of  the  govern- 
ment on  the  people  in  their  individual  capacities,  in  its  ordinary 
and  most  essential  proceedings,  will,  on  the  whole,  in  the  sense  of 
its  opponents,  designate  it,  in  this  relation,  a  national  government. 

But  if  the  government  be  national,  with  regard  to  the  operation 
of  its  powers,  it  changes  its  aspect  again,  when  we  contemplate  it 
in  relation  to  the  extent  of  its  powers.  The  idea  of  a  national 
government  involves  in  it,  not  only  an  authority  over  the  individu- 
al citizens,  but  an  indefinite  supremacy  overall  persons  and  things, 
so  far  as  they  are  objects  of  lawful  government.  Among  a  people 
consolidated  into  one  nation,  this  supremacy  is  completely  vested 
in  the  national  legislature.  Among  communities  united  for  par- 
ticular purposes,  it  is  vested  partly  in  the  general,  and  partly  in 
the  municipal  legislatures.  In  the  former  case,  all  local  authori- 
ties are  subordinate  to  the  supreme  ;  and  may  be  controled, 
directed,  or  abolished  by  it  at  pleasure.  In  the  latter,  the  local  or 
municipal  authorities  form  distinct  and  independent  portions  of 
the  supremacy,  no  more  subject  within  their  respective  spheres,  to 
the  general  authority,  than  the  general  authority  is  subject  to  them 
within  its  own  sphere.  In  this  relation,  then,  the  proposed  gov- 
ernment cannot  be  deemed  a  national  one;  since  its  jurisdiction 
extends  to  certain  enumerated  objects  only,  and  leaves  to  the  sev- 
eral states  a  residuary  and  inviolable  sovereignty  over  all  other 
objects.  It  is  true,  that  in  controversies  relating  to  the  boundary 
between  the  two  jurisdictions,  the  tribunal  which  is  ultimately  to 
decide,  is  to  be  established  under  the  general  government.  But 
this  does  not  change  the  principle  of  the  case.  The  decision  is  to 
be  impartially  made,  according  to  the  rules  of  the  constitution  ; 
and  all  the  usual  and  most  effectual  precautions  are  taken  to  se- 
cure this  impartiality.  Some  such  tribunal  is  clearly  essential  to 
prevent  an  appeal  to  the  sword,  and  a  dissolution  of  the  compact ; 
and  that  it  ougiit  to  be  established  under  the  general,  rather  than 
under  the  local  governments  ;  or,  to  speak  more  properly,  that  it 
could  be  safely  established  under  the  first  alone,  is  a  position  not 
likely  to  be  combated. 

If  we  try  the  constitution  by  its  last  relation,  to  the  authority 
by  which  amendments  are  to  be  be  made,  we  find  it  neither  whol- 
ly national^  nor  wholly  federal.     Were  it  wholly  national,  the  su- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  193 

preme  and  ultimate  authority  would  reside  in  the  majority  of  the 
people  of  the  union  ;  and  this  authority*  would  be  competent  at  all 
times,  like  that  of  a  majority  of  every  national  society,  to  alter  or 
abolish  its  established  government.  Were  it  wholly  federal  on  the 
other  hand,  the  concurrence  of  each  stale  in  the  union  would  be 
essential  to  every  alteration  that  would  be  binding  on  all.  The 
mode  provided  by  the  plan  of  the  convention,  is  not  founded  on 
either  of  these  principles.  In  requiring  more  than  a  majority, 
and  particularly,  in  computing  the  proportion  by  states,  not  by  cit- 
izens, it  departs  from  the  national,  and  advances  towards  the  fede- 
ral character.  In  rendering  the  concurrence  of  less  than  the  whole 
number  of  states  sufficient,  it  loses  again  the  federal,  and  partakes 
of  the  national  character. 

The  proposed  constitution,  therefore,  even  when  tested  by  the 
rules  laid  down  by  its  antagonists,  is,  in  strictness,  neither  a  na- 
tional nor  a  federal  constitution  ;  but  a  composition  of  both.  In 
its  foundation  it  is  federal,  not  national ;  in  the  sources  from  which 
the  ordinary  powers  of  the  government  are  drawn,  it  is  partly  fed- 
eral, and  partly  national :  in  the  operation  of  these  powers,  it  is 
national,  not  federal  ;  in  the  extent  of  them  again,  it  is  federal, 
not  national ;  and  finally  in  the  authoritative  mode  of  introducing 
amendments,  it  is  neither  wholly  federal,  nor  wholly  national. 

PUBLIUS, 


NO.  XL. 

By  JAMES  MADISON. 

The  same  Objection  further  Examined. 

The  second  point  to  be  examined  i«,  whether  the  convention 
were  authorized  to  frame,  and  propose  this  mixed  constitution. 

The  powers  of  the  convention  ought,  in  strictness,  to  be  deter- 
mined, by  an  inspection  of  the  commissions  given  to  the  members 
by  their  respective  constituents.  As  all  of  these,  however,  had 
reference,  either  to  the  recommendation  from  the  meeting  at  An- 
napolis, in  September,  1786,  or  to  that  from  congress,  in  Februa- 
ry, 1787,  it  will  be  sufficient  to  recur  to  these  particular  acts. 

The  act  from  Annapolis  recommends  the  "  appointment  of  com- 
"  missioners  to  take  into  consideration  the  situation  of  the  United 
*'  States  ;  to  devise  such  further  provisions,  as  shall  appear  to  them 
"  necessary  to  render  the  constitution  of  the  federal  government 
"  adequate  to  the  exigencies  of  the  union ;  and  to  report  such  aa  act 
23 


194  THE  FEDERALIST. 

♦'  for  that  purpose,  to  the  United  St.ites  in  congress  assembled,  as, 
"  when  agreed  to  by  them,  and  afterwards  confirmed  by  the  legia- 
"  lature  of  every  state,  will  effectually  provide  for  the  same." 

The  recommendatory  act  of  congress  is  in  the  words  following: 
«♦  Whereas,  there  is  provision  in  the  articles  of  confederation  and 
•«  perpetual  union,  for  making  alterations  therein,  by  the  assent  of 
"  a  congress  of  the  United  States,  and  of  the  legislatures  of  the 
»'  several  states  ;  and  whereas  exj)erience  hath  evinced,  that  there 
•'  are  defects  in  the  present  confederation  ;  as  a  mean  to  remedy 
"  which,  several  of  the  states,  and  particularly  the  state  of  New 
♦'  York,  by  express  instructions  to  their  delegates  in  congress,  have 
"  suggested  a  convention  for  the  purposes  expressed  in  the  follow- 
"  ing  resolution  ;  and  such  convention  appearing  to  be  the  most 
"  probable  mean  of  establishing  in  these  stales  a /rm  national  gov- 
"  ernment :" 

"  Resolved,  That  in  the  opinion  of  congress,  it  is  expedient, 
"  that  on  the  2d  Monday  in  May  next,  a  convention  of  delegates, 
"  who  shall  have  been  appointed  by  the  several  states,  be  held  at 
"  Philadelphia,  for  the  sole  and  express  purpose  of  revising  the 
"  articles  of  confederation,  and  reporting  to  congress  and  the  sev- 
"  eral  legislatures,  such  alterations  and  provisions  therein,  as  shall, 
"  when  agreed  to  in  congress,  and  confirmed  by  the  states,  render 
"  the  federal  constitution  adequate  to  the  exigencies  of  government, 
"  and  the  preservation  of  the  tinion." 

From  these  two  acts,  it  appears,  1st,  that  the  object  of  the  con- 
vention was  to  establish,  in  these  states,  a /r/»  national  government ; 
2d,  that  tliis  government  was  to  be  such  as  would  be  adequate  to 
the  exigencies  of  government,  and  the  preservation  of  the  union  ;  3d, 
that  these  purposes  were  to  be  eftected  by  alterations  and  provis- 
ions in  the  articles  of  confederation,  as  it  is  expressed  in  the  act  of 
congress ;  or  by  siicli  further  provisions  as  shoxdd  appear  necessary, 
as  it  stands  in  the  recommendatory  act  from  Annapolis;  4th,  that 
the  alterations  and  provisions  were  to  be  reported  to  congress,  and 
to  the  states,  in  order  to  be  agreed  to  by  the  former  and  confirmed 
by  the  latter. 

From  a  comparison,  and  fair  construction,  of  these  several 
modes  of  expression,  is  to  be  deduced  the  authority  under  which 
the  convention  acted.  They  were  to  frame  a  national  government, 
adequate  to  the  exigencies  of  government,  and  of  the  union;  and  to 
reduce  the  articles  of  confederation  into  such  form,  as  to  accom- 
plish these  purposes. 

There  are  two  rules  of  construction,  dictated  by  plain  reason, 
as  well  as  founded  on  legal  axioms.     The  one  is,  that  every  part 


THE  FEDERALIST.  195 

of  the  expression  ought,  if  possible,  to  be  allowed  some  meaning, 
and  be  made  to  conspire  to  some  common  end.  The  other  is,  that 
where  the  several  parts  cannot  be  made  to  coincide,  the  less  im- 
portant should  give  way  to  the  more  important  part :  the  means 
should  be  sacrificed  to  the  end,  rather  than  the  end  to  the  means. 
Suppose,  then,  that  the  expressions  defining  the  authority  of  the 
convention,  were  irreconcilably  at  variance  with  each  other  ;  that 
a  national  and  adequate  government  coidd  not  possibly,  in  the  judg- 
ment of  the  convention,  be  effected  by  alterations  and  provisions 
in  the  articles  of  confederation ;  which  part  of  the  definition  ought 
to  have  been  embraced,  and  which  rejected  1  Which  was  the 
more  important ;  which  the  less  important  part  1  Which  the  end  ; 
which  the  means  1  Let  the  most  scrupulous  expositors  of  dele- 
gated powers;  let  the  most  inveterate  objectors  against  those  ex- 
ercised by  the  convention,  answer  these  questions.  Let  them  de- 
clare, whether  it  was  of  most  importance  to  the  happiness  of  the 
people  of  America,  that  the  articles  of  confederation  should  be 
disregarded,  and  an  adequate  government  be  provided,  and  the  union 
preserved  ;  or  that  an  adequate  government  should  be  omitted,  and 
the  articles  of  confederation  preserved.  Let  them  declare,  wheth- 
er the  preservation  of  these  articles  was  the  end,  for  securing  which 
a  reform  of  the  government  was  to  be  introduced  as  the  means  ; 
or  whether  the  establishment  of  a  government,  adequate  to  the 
national  happiness,  was  the  end  at  which  these  articles  themselves 
originally  aimed,  and  to  which  they  ought,  as  insufficient  means, 
to  have  been  sacrificed. 

But  is  it  necessary  to  suppose,  that  these  expressions  are  abso- 
lutely irreconcilable  to  each  other  ;  that  no  alterations  or  provisions 
in  the  articles  of  the  confederation,  could  possibly  mould  them  into 
a  national  and  adequate  government :  into  such  a  government  as 
has  been  proposed  by  the  convention  ? 

No  stress,  it  is  presumed,  will,  in  this  case,  be  laid  on  the  title; 
a  change  of  that  could  never  be  deemed  an  exercise  of  ungrant- 
ed  power.  Alterations  in  the  body  of  the  instrument  are  express- 
ly authorized.  New  provisions  therein  are  also  expressly  author- 
ized. Here  then  is  a  power  to  change  the  title;  to  insert  new  ar- 
ticles ;  to  alter  old  ones.  Must  it  of  necessity  be  admitted,  that 
this  power  is  infringed,  so  long  as  a  part  of  the  old  articles  re- 
main !  Those  who  maintain  the  affirmative,  ought  at  least  to 
mark  the  boundary  between  authorized  and  usurped  innovations; 
between  that  degree  of  change  which  lies  within  the  compass  of 
alterations  and  further  provisions,  and  that  which  amounts  to  a 
transmutation  of  the  government.     Will  it  be  said,  that  the  altera- 


196  THE  FEDERALIST. 

tions  ought  not  to  have  touched  the  substance  of  the  confedera- 
tion ?  The  stntes  would  liever  have  appointed  a  convention  with 
so  much  solemnity,  nor  descrihed  its  objects  with  so  much  hititude, 
if  some  substantial  reform  had  not  been  in  contemplation.  Will 
it  be  said,  that  the  fundamental  jirincijples  of  the  confederation  were 
not  within  the  purview  of  the  convention,  and  ought  not  to  have 
been  varied  ?  I  ask,  what  are  these  principles  ?  Do  they  require^ 
that  in  the  establishment  of  the  constitution,  the  states  should  be 
regarded  as  distinct  and  independent  sovereigns  ?  They  are  so 
regarded  by  the  constitution  proposed.  Do  they  require,  that  the 
members  of  the  government  should  derive  their  appointment  from 
the  legislatures,  not  tVom  the  people  of  the  states  ?  One  branch, 
of  the  new  government  is  to  be  appointed  by  these  legislatures  ; 
and  under  the  confederation,  the  delegates  to  congress  may  all  be 
appointed  in)raediately  by  the  people  ;  and  in  two  states*  are  actu- 
ally so  appointed.  Do  they  require,  that  the  powers  of  tlie  gov- 
ernment should  act  on  the  states,  and  not  immediately  on  individu- 
als 1  In  some  instances,  as  has  been  shown,  the  powers  of  the  new 
government  will  act  on  the  states  in  their  collective  cliaracters.  In 
some  instances  also,  those  of  the  existing  government  act  imme- 
diately on  individuals.  In  cases  of  capture  ;  of  piracy  ;  of  the 
post-office;  of  coins,  weights,  and  measures;  of  trade  with  the 
Indians;  of  claims  under  grants  of  land,  by  different  states  ;  and,, 
above  all,  in  the  case  of  trials  by  courts-martial  in  the  array  and 
navy,  by  which  death  may  be  inflicted  without  the  intervention  of 
a  jury,  or  even  of  a  civil  magistrate ;  in  all  these  cases,  the  pow- 
ers of  the  confederation  operate  immediately  on  the  persons  and 
interests  of  individual  citizens.  Do  these  fundamental  principles 
require,  particularly,  that  no  tax  should  be  levied,  without  the  in- 
termediate agency  of  the  states  ?  The  confederation  itself,  au- 
thorizes a  direct  tax,  to  a  certain  extent,  on  the  post-office.  The 
power  of  coinage,  has  been  so  construed  by  congress,  as  to  levy  a 
tribute  immediately  from  that  source  also.  But  pretermitting  these 
instances,  was  it  not  an  acknowledged  object  of  the  convention, 
and  the  universal  expectation  of  the  people,  that  the  regulation  of 
trade  should  be  submitted  to  the  general  government,  in  such  a 
form  as  would  render  it  an  immediate  source  of  general  revenue  1 
Had  not  congress  repeatedly  recommended  this  measure,  as  not 
inconsistent  with  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  confederation  ? 
Had  not  every  state,  but  one  ;  had  not  New  York  herself,  so  far 
complied  with  the  plan  of  congress,  as  to  recognize  the  principle 
of  the  innovation  1     Do  these  principles,  in  fine,  require  that  the 

*  Connecticut  and  Rhode  Island. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  197 

powers  of  the  general  government  should  be  linnited,  and  that, 
beyond  this  limit,  the  states  should  be  left  in  possession  of  their 
sovereignty  and  independence  ?  We  Iiave  seen,  that  in  the  new 
government,  as  in  the  old,  tiie  general  powers  are  limited  ;  and  that 
the  states,  in  all  unenumerated  cases,  are  left  in  the  enjoyment  of 
their  sovereign  and  indejiendent  jurisdiction- 
Truth  is,  that  the  great  principles  of  the  constitution  proposed 
by  the  convention,  may  be  considered  less,  as  absohuely  new, 
than  as  the  expansion  of  principles  which  are  found  in  the  articles 
of  confederation.  The  misfortune  under  the  latter  system  has 
been,  that  these  princi])les  are  so  feeble  and  confined,  as  to  justify 
all  the  charges  of  inefficiency  which  have  been  urged  against  it; 
and  to  require  a  degree  of  enlargement,  which  gives  to  the  new 
system  the  aspect  of  an  entire  transformation  of  the  old. 

In  one  particular,  it  is  admitted,  that  the  convention  have  de- 
parted from  the  tenor  of  their  commission.  Instead  of  reporting 
a  plan  requiring  the  confirmation  of  all  the  states,  they  have  report- 
ed a  plan,  which  is  to  be  confirmed,  and  may  be  carried  into  effect, 
by  nine  states  only.  It  is  worthy  of  remark,  that  this  objection, 
though  the  most  plausible,  has  been  the  least  urged  in  the  publica- 
tions which  have  swarmed  against  the  convention.  The  forbear- 
ance can  only  have  proceeded  from  an  irresistible  conviction  of 
the  absurdity  of  subjecting  the  fate  of  twelve  states  to  the  perverse- 
ness  or  corruption  of  a  thirteenth  ;  from  the  example  of  inflexible 
opposition  given  by  a  majority  of  one  sixtieth  of  the  people  of 
America,  to  a  measure  approved  and  called  for  by  the  voice  of 
twelve  states,  comprising  fifty-nine  sixtieths  of  the  people ;  an  ex- 
ample still  fresh  in  the  memory  and  indignation  of  every  citizen 
who  has  felt  for  the  wounded  honour  and  prosperity  of  his  country. 
As  this  objection,  therefore,  has  been  in  a  manner  waved  by  those 
who  have  criticised  the  powers  of  the  convention,  I  dismiss  it  with- 
out further  observation. 

The  third  point  to  be  inquired  into  is,  how  far  considerations  of 
duty  arising  out  of  the  case  itself,  could  have  supplied  any  defect 
of  regular  authority. 

In  the  preceding  inquiries,  the  powers  of  the  convention  have 
been  analyzed  and  tried  with  the  same  rigour,  and  by  tbe  same 
rules,  as  if  they  had  been  real  and  final  powers,  for  the  establish- 
ment of  a  constitution  for  the  United  States.  We  have  seen,  in 
what  manner  they  have  borne  the  trial,  even  on  that  supposition. 
It  is  time  now  to  recollect,  that  the  powers  were  merely  advisory 
and  recommendatory  ;  that  they  were  so  meant  by  the  states,  and 
so  understood  by  the  convention ;  and  that  the  latter  have  accord- 


198  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ingly  planned  and  proposed  a  constitution,  which  is  to  be  of  no 
more  consequence  than  the  paper  on  which  it  is  written,  unless  it 
be  stamped  with  the  approbation  of  those  to  whom  it  is  addressed. 
Tills  reflection  places  the  subject  in  a  point  of  view  altogether 
different,  and  will  enable  us  to  judge  with  propriety  of  the  course 
taken  by  the  convention. 

Let  us  view  the  ground  on  which  the  convention  stood.  It  may 
be  collected  from  their  proceedings,  that  they  were  deeply  and 
unanimously  impressed  with  the  crisis,  which  had  led  their  coun- 
try, almost  with  one  voice,  to  make  so  singular  and  solemn  an 
experiment,  for  correcting  the  errours  of  a  system,  by  which  this 
crisis  had  been  produced  ;  that  they  were  no  less  deeply  and 
unanimously  cotjvinced,  that  such  a  reform  as  they  have  proposed, 
was  absolutely  necessary  to  effect  the  purposes  of  their  appoint- 
ment. It  could  not  be  unknown  to  them,  that  the  hopes  and  ex- 
pectations of  the  great  body  of  citizens,  throughout  this  great  em- 
pire, were  turned  with  the  keenest  anxiety,  to  the  event  of  their 
deliberations.  They  had  every  reason  to  believe,  that  the  contrary 
sentiments  agitated  the  minds  and  bosoms  of  every  external  and 
internal  foe  to  the  liberty  and  prosperity  of  the  United  States. 
They  had  seen  in  the  origin  and  progress  of  the  experiment,  the 
alacrity  with  which  the  proposition,  made  by  a  single  state  (Vir- 
ginia) towards  a  partial  amendment  of  the  confederation  had  been 
attended  to  and  promoted.  They  had  seen  the  liberty  assumed  by 
a  very  few  deputies,  from  a  very  few  states,  convened  at  Annapolis, 
of  recommending  a  great  and  critical  object,  wholly  foreign  to 
their  commission,  not  only  justified  by  the  public  opinion,  but 
actually  carried  into  effect,  by  twelve  out  of  the  thirteen  states. 
They  had  seen,  in  a  variety  of  instances,  assumptions  by  congress, 
not  only  of  recommendatory,  but  of  operative  powers,  warranted 
in  the  public  estimation,  by  occasions  and  objects  infinitely  less 
uro-ent  than  those  by  which  their  conduct  was  to  be  governed. 
They  must  have  reflected,  that  in  all  great  changes  of  estab- 
lished governments,  forms  ought  to  give  way  to  substance  ;  that  a 
rigid  adherence  in  such  cases  to  the  former,  would  render  nominal 
and  nugatory,  the  transcendant  and  precious  right  of  the  people 
to  "  abolish  or  alter  their  governments  as  to  them  shall  seem 
"  most  likely  to  effect  their  safety  and  happiness  :"*  since  it  is  im- 
possible for  the  people  spontaneously  and  universally,  to  move  in 
concert  towards  their  object:  and  it  is  therefore  essential,  that 
such  changes  be  instituted  by  some  informal  and  unauthorized  pro- 
positions, made  by  some  patriotic  and  respectable  citizen,  or  nuni- 
*  Declaration  of  Independence. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  199 

ber  of  citizens.  They  must  have  recollected,  that  it  was  by  this 
irregular  and  assumed  privilege,  of  proposing  to  the  people  plans 
for  their  safety  and  happiness,  that  the  states  were  first  united 
against  the  danger  with  which  they  were  threatened  by  their  an- 
cient government ;  that  committees  and  congresses  were  formed 
for  concentrating  their  efforts,  and  defending  their  rights;  and 
that  conventions  were  elected  in  the  several  states,  for  establishing 
the  constitutions  under  which  they  are  now  governed.  Nor  could 
it  have  been  forgotten,  that  no  little  ill-timed  scruples,  no  zeal  for 
adhering  to  ordinary  forms,  were  anywhere  seen,  except  in  those 
who  wished  to  indulge,  under  these  masks,  their  secret  enmity  to 
the  substance  contended  for.  They  must  have  borne  in  mind,  that 
as  the  plan  to  be  framed  and  proposed,  was  to  be  submitted  to  the 
people  themselves,  the  disapprobation  of  this  supreme  authority 
would  destroy  it  for  ever  :  its  approbation  blot  out  all  antecedent 
errours  and  irregularities.  It  might  even  have  occurred  to  them, 
that  where  a  disposition  to  cavil  prevailed,  their  neglect  to  execute 
the  degree  of  power  vested  in  them,  and  still  more  their  recom- 
mendation of  any  measure  whatever  not  warranted  by  their  com- 
mission, would  not  less  excite  animadversion,  than  a  recommen- 
dation at  once  of  a  measure  fully  commensurate  to  the  national 
exigencies. 

Had  the  convention,  under  all  these  impressions,  and  in  the 
midst  of  all  these  considerations,  instead  of  exercising  a  manly 
confidence  in  their  country,  by  whose  confidence  they  had  been 
so  peculiarly  distinguished,  and  of  pointing  out  a  system  capable, 
in  their  judgment,  of  securing  its  happiness,  taken  the  cold  and 
sullen  resolution  of  disappointing  its  ardent  hopes,  of  sacrificing 
substance  to  forms,  of  committing  the  dearest  interests  of  their 
country  to  the  uncertainties  of  delay,  and  the  hazard  of  events  ; 
let  me  ask  the  man,  who  can  raise  his  mind  to  one  elevated  con- 
ception, who  can  awaken  in  his  bosom  one  patriotic  emotion, 
what  judgment  ought  to  have  been  pronounced  by  the  impartial 
world,  by  the  friends  of  mankind,  by  every  virtuous  citizen,  on 
the  conduct  and  character  of  this  assembly  ?  Or  if  there  be  a 
man  whose  propensity  to  condemn  is  susceptible  of  no  control, 
let  me  then  ask,  what  sentence  he  has  in  reserve  for  the  twelve 
states  who  usurped  the  power  of  sending  deputies  to  the  convention, 
a  body  utterly  unknown  to  their  constitutions ;  for  congress,  who 
recommended  the  appointment  of  this  body,  equally  unknown  to  the 
confederation  ;  and  for  the  state  of  New  York,  in  particular,  who 
first  urged,  and  then  complied  with  this  unauthorized  interposi- 
tion 1 


200  THE  FEDERALIST. 

But  that  the  objectors  may  be  disarmed  of  every  pretext,  it 
shall  be  "ranted  for  a  moment,  that  the  convention  were  neither 
authorized  by  their  commission,  nor  justified  by  circumstances,  in 
proposing  a  constitution  for  their  country  :  does  it  follow  that  the 
constitution  ought,  for  that  reason  alone,  to  be  rejected  ?  If,  ac- 
cording to  the  noble  precept,  it  be  lawful  to  accept  good  advice 
even  from  an  enemy,  shall  we  set  the  ignoble  example,  of  re- 
fusing such  advice  even  when  it  is  offered  by  our  friends  1  The 
prudent  inquiry,  in  all  cases,  ought  surely  to  be  not  so  much  from 
whom  the  advice  comes,  as  whether  the  advice  be  good. 

The  sum  of  what  has  been  here  advanced  and  proved  is,  that 
the  charge  against  the  convention  of  exceeding  their  powers,  ex- 
cept in  one  instance  little  urged  by  the  objectors,  has  no  founda- 
tion to  support  it  ;  that  if  they  had  exceeded  their  powers,  they 
were  not  only  warranted,  but  required,  as  the  confidential  servants 
of  their  county,  by  the  circumstances  in  which  they  were  placed, 
to  exercise  the  liberty  which  they  assumed  ;  and  that  finally,  if 
they  had  violated  both  their  powers  and  their  obligations,  in  pro- 
posing a  constitution,  this  ought  nevertheless  to  be  embraced,  if  it 
be  calculated  to  accomplish  the  views  and  happiness  of  the  people 
of  America.  How  far  this  character  is  due  to  the  constitution,  is 
the  subject  under  investigation.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XLL 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 

General  Vieto  of  the  Powers  proposed  to  be  vested  in  the  Union, 

The  constitution  proposed  by  the  convention,  may  be  consider- 
ed under  two  general  points  of  view.  The  first  relates  to  the 
sum  or  quantity  of  power  which  it  vests  in  the  government,  includ- 
ing the  restraints  imposed  on  the  states.  The  second,  to  the  par- 
ticular structure  of  the  government,  and  the  distribution  of  this 
power  among  its  several  branches. 

Under  the  first  view  of  the  subject,  two  important  questions 
arise  : — 1.  Whether  any  part  of  the  powers  transferred  to  the  gen- 
eral government  be  unnecessary  or  improper  ? — 2.  Whether  the 
entire  mass  of  them  be  dangerous  to  the  portion  of  jurisdiction 
left  in  the  several  states  ? 

Is  the  aggregate  power  of  the  general  government  greater  than 
ought  to  have  been  vested  in  it  1     This  is  the  first  question. 

It  cannot  have  escaped  those,  who  have  attended  with  candour 


THE  FEDERALIST.  201 

to  the  arguments  employed  against  the  extensive  powers  of  tlie 
government,  that  the  authors  of  them  have  very  little  considered, 
how  far  these  powers  were  necessary  means  of  attaining  a  neces- 
sary end.  They  have  chosen  rather  to  dwell  on  the  inconvenien- 
cies  whicii  must  be  unavoidably  blended  with  all  political  advant- 
ages ;  and  on  the  possible  abuses  which  must  be  incident  to  every 
power  or  trust,  of  which  a  beneficial  use  can  be  made.  This 
method  of  handling  the  subject,  cannot  impose  on  the  good  sense 
of  the  people  of  America.  It  may  display  the  subtlety  of  the 
writer  ;  it  may  open  a  boundless  field  of  rhetoric  and  declamation ; 
it  may  inflame  the  passions  of  the  unthinking,  and  may  confirm 
the  prejudices  of  the  misthinking  :  but  cool  and  candid  people 
will  at  once  reflect,  that  the  purest  of  human  blessings  must  have 
a  portion  of  alloy  in  them  ;  that  the  choice  must  always  be  made, 
if  not  of  the  lesser  evil,  at  least  of  the  greater,  not  the  perfect 
good  ;  and  that  in  every  political  institution,  a  power  to  advance 
the  public  happiness,  involves  a  discretion  which  may  be  misappli- 
ed and  abused.  They  will  see,  therefore,  that  in  all  cases  were 
power  is  to  be  conferred,  the  point  first  to  be  decided  is,  whether 
such  a  power  be  necessary  to  the  public  good  ;  as  the  next  will  be, 
in  case  of  an  afilrmative  decision,  to  guard  as  effectually  as  possi- 
ble against  a  perversion  of  the  power  to  the  public  detriment. 

That  we  may  form  a  correct  judgment  on  this  subject,  it  will  be 
proper  to  review  the  several  powers  conferred  on  the  government 
of  the  union  ;  and  that  this  may  be  the  more  conveniently  done, 
they  may  be  reduced  into  different  classes  as  they  relate  to  the  fol- 
lowing different  objects  :  1.  Security  against  foreign  danger  ;  2. 
Regulation  of  the  intercourse  with  foreign  nations  ;  3.  Mainte- 
nance of  harmony  and  proper  intercourse  among  the  states  ;  4. 
Certain  miscellaneous  objects  of  general  utility ;  5.  Restraint  of 
the  states  from  certain  injurious  acts  ;  6.  Provisions  for  giving  due 
eflftcacy  to  all  these  powers. 

The  powers  falling  within  the  first  class,  are  those  of  declaring 
war,  and  granting  letters  of  marque  ;  of  providing  armies  and 
fleets  ;  of  regulating  and  calling  forth  the  militia;  of  levying  and 
borrowing  money. 

Security  against  foreign  danger,  is  one  of  the  primitive  objects  of 
civil  society.  It  is  an  avowed  and  essential  object  of  the  Ameri- 
can union.  The  powers  requisite  for  attaining  it,  must  be  effect- 
ually confided  to  the  federal  councils. 

Is  the  power  of  declaring  war  necessary  1     No  man  will  answer 
this  question  in  the  negative.     It  would  be  superfluous,  therefore, 
24 


202  THE  FEDERALIST. 

to  enter  into  a  proof  of  the  affirmative.     The  existing  confedera- 
tion establishes  this  power  in  the  most  ample  form. 

Is  the  power  of  raisiiijr  armies,  and  equipping  fleets  necessary? 
This  is  involved  in  the  foregoing  power.  It  is  involved  in  the  pow- 
er of  self-defence. 

But  was  it  necessary  to  give  an  indefinite  power  of  raising 
TROOPS,  as  well  as  providing  fleets ;  and  of  maintaining  both  in 
PEACE,  as  well  as  in  war  ? 

The  answer  to  these  questions  has  been  too  far  anticipated  in 
another  place,  to  admit  an  extensive  discussion  of  them  in  this 
place.  The  answer  indeed  seems  to  be  so  obvious  and  conclusive, 
as  scarcely  to  justify  such  a  discussion  in  any  place.  With  what 
colour  of  propriety,  could  the  force  necessary  for  defence  be  limit- 
ed, by  those  who  cannot  limit  the  force  of  ofience  1  If  a  federal 
constitution  could  chain  the  ambition,  or  set  bounds  to  the  exer- 
tions of  all  other  nations,  then  indeed  might  it  prudently  chain 
the  discretion  of  its  own  government,  and  set  bounds  to  the  exer- 
tions for  its  own  safety. 

How  could  a  readiness  for  war  in  time  of  peace  be  safely  pro- 
hibited, unlpss  we  could  prohibit,  in  like  njanner,  the  preparations 
and  establishments  of  every  hostile  nation  1  The  means  of  secu- 
rity can  only  be  regulated  by  the  means  and  the  danger  of  attack. 
They  will  in  fact  be  ever  determined  by  these  rules,  and  by  no 
others.  It  is  in  vain  to  oppose  constitutional  barriers  to  the  impulse 
of  self-preservation.  It  is  worse  than  in  vain  :  because  it  plants 
in  the  constitution  itself  necessary  usurpations  of  power,  every 
precedent  of  which  is  a  germ  of  unnecessary  and  multiplied  repe- 
titions. If  one  nation  maintains  constantly  a  disciplined  army, 
ready  for  the  service  of  ambition  or  revenge,  it  obliges  the  most 
pacific  nations,  who  may  be  within  the  reach  of  its  enterprises,  to 
take  corresponding  precautions.  The  fifteenth  century  was  the 
unhappy  epoch  of  military  establishments  in  time  of  peace.  They 
were  introduced  by  Charles  VII  of  France.  All  Europe  has  fol- 
lowed, or  been  foiced  into  the  example.  Had  the  example  not 
been  followed  by  other  nations,  all  Europe  must  long  ago  have  worn 
the  chains  of  a  universal  monarch.  Were  every  nation,  except 
France,  now  to  disband  its  peace  establishment,  the  same  event 
might  follow.  The  veteran  legions  of  Rome  were  an  overmatch 
for  the*  undisciplined  valour  of  all  other  nations,  and  rendered  her 
mistress  of  the  world. 

Not  the  less  true  is  it,  that  the  liberties  of  Rome  proved  the 
final  victim  to  her  military  triumphs  ;  and  that  the  liberties  of  Eu- 
rope, as  far  as  they  ever  existed,  have,  with  few  exceptions,  been 


THE  FEDERALIST.  203 

the  price  of  her  military  establishments.  A  standing  force,  there- 
fore, is  a  dangerous,  at  the  same  time  that  it  may  be  a  necessary, 
provision.  On  the  smaller  scale,  it  has  its  inconveniences.  On 
an  extensive  scale,  its  consequences  may  be  fatal.  On  any  scale, 
it  is  an  object  of  laudable  circumspection  and  precaution.  A  wise 
nation  will  combine  all  these  considerations  ;  and  whilst  it  does 
not  ra-shly  preclude  itself  from  any  resource  which  may  become 
essential  to  its  safety  will  exert  all  its  prudence  in  diminishing 
both  the  necessity  and  the  danger  of  resorting  to  one,  which  may 
be  inauspicious  to  its  liberties. 

The  clearest  marks  of  this  prudence  are  stamped  on  the  pro- 
posed constitution.  The  union  itself,  which  it  cements  and  se- 
cures, destroys  every  pretext  for  a  military  establisbment  which 
could  be  dangerous.  America  united,  with  a  handful  of  troops, 
or  without  a  single  soldier,  exhibits  a  more  forbidding  posture  to 
foreign  ambition,  than  America  disunited  with  a  hundred  thousand 
veterans  ready  for  combat.  It  was  remarked,  on  a  former  occa- 
sion, that  the  want  of  this  pretext  had  saved  the  liberties  of  one 
nation  in  Europe.  Being  rendered,  by  her  insular  situation,  and 
her  maritime  resources,  impregnable  to  the  armies  of  her  neigh- 
bours, the  rulers  of  Great  Britain  have  never  been  able,  by  real  or 
artificial  dangers,  to  cheat  the  public  into  an  extensive  peace  es- 
tablishment. The  distance  of  the  United  States  from  the  power- 
ful nations  of  the  world,  gives  them  the  same  happy  security.  A 
dangerous  establishment  can  never  be  necessary  or  plausible,  so 
long  as  they  continue  a  united  people.  But  let  it  never  for  a  mo- 
ment be  forgotten,  that  they  are  indebted  for  this  advantage  to 
their  union  alone.  The  moment  of  its  dissolution  will  be  the  date  of 
a  new  order  of  things.  The  fears  of  the  weaker,  or  the  ambition 
of  the  stronger  states,  or  confederacies,  will  set  the  same  example 
in  the  new  as  Charles  VII  did  in  the  old  world.  The  example 
will  be  followed  here,  from  the  same  motives  which  produced  uni- 
versal imitation  there.  Instead  of  deriving  from  our  situation  the 
precious  advantage  which  Great  Britain  has  derived  from  hers, 
the  face  of  America  will  be  but  a  copy  of  that  of  the  continent  of 
Europe.  It  will  present  liberty  everywhere  crushed  between  stand- 
ing armies,  and  perpetual  taxes.  The  fortunes  of  disunited 
America,  will  be  even  more  disastrous  than  those  of  Europe.  The 
sources  of  evil  in  the  latter  aie  confined  to  her  own  limits.  No 
superiour  powers  of  another  quarter  of  the  globe  intrigue  among 
her  rival  nations,  inflame  their  mutual  animosities,  and  render 
them  the  instruments  of  foreign  ambition,  jealousy,  and  revenge. 
In  America,  the  miseries  springing  from   her  internal  jealousies, 


204  THE  FEDERALIST. 

contentions,  and  wars,  would  form  a  part  only  of  her  lot.  A  plen- 
tiful addition  of  evils,  would  have  their  source  in  that  relation  in 
which  Europe  stands  to  this  quarter  of  the  earth,  and  which  no 
other  quarter  of  the  earth  bears  to  Europe. 

Tiiis  picture  of  the  consequences  of  disunion  cannot  be  too 
highly  coloured,  or  too  often  exhibited.  Every  man  who  loves 
peace  ;  every  man  who  loves  his  country  ;  every  man  who  loves 
liberty,  ought  to  have  it  ever  before  his  eyes,  that  he  may  cherish 
in  his  heart  a  due  attachment  to  the  union  of  America,  and  be 
able  to  set  a  due  value  on  the  means  of  preserving  it. 

Next  to  the  effectual  establishment  of  the  union,  the  best  possi- 
ble precaution  against  danger  from  standing  armies,  is  a  limitation 
of  the  term  for  which  revenue  may  be  appropriated  to  their  sup- 
port. This  precaution  the  constitution  has  prudently  added.  I 
will  not  repeat  here  the  observations,  which  I  flatter  myself  have 
placed  this  subject  in  a  just  and  satisfactory  light.  But  it  may  not 
be  improper  to  take  notice  of  an  argument  against  this  part  of  the 
constitution,  which  has  been  drawn  from  the  policy  and  practice 
of  Great  Britain.  It  is  said,  that  the  continuance  of  an  army  in 
that  kingdom,  requires  an  annual  vote  of  the  legislature  :  whereas 
the  American  constitution  has  lengthened  this  critical  period  to 
two  years.  This  is  the  form  in  which  the  comparison  is  usually 
stated  to  the  public  :  but  is  it  a  just  form  1  is  it  a  fair  comparison  1 
Does  the  British  constitution  restrain  the  parliamentary  discretion 
to  one  year  ?  Does  the  American  impose  on  the  congress  appro- 
priations for  two  years  1  On  the  contrary,  it  cannot  be  unknown 
to  the  authors  of  the  fallacy  themselves,  that  the  British  constitu- 
tion fixes  no  limit  whatever  to  the  discretion  of  the  legislature,  and 
that  the  American  ties  down  the  legislature  to  two  years,  as  the 
longest  admissible  term. 

Had  the  argument  from  the  British  example  been  truly  stated, 
it  would  have  stood  thus :  the  term  for  which  supplies  may  be  ap- 
propriated to  the  army  establishment,  though  unlimited  by  the 
British  constitution,  has  nevertheless  in  practice  been  limited  by 
parliamentary  discretion  to  a  single  year.  Now,  if  in  Great 
Britain,  where  the  house  of  commons  is  elected  for  seven  years; 
where  so  great  a  proportion  of  the  members  are  elected  by  so 
small  a  proportion  of  the  people  ;  where  the  electors  are  so  cor- 
rupted by  the  representatives,  and  the  representatives  so  corrupted 
by  the  crown,  the  representative  body  can  possess  a  power  to 
make  appropriations  to  the  army  for  an  indefinite  term,  without 
desiring,  or  without  daring,  to  extend  the  term  beyond  a  single 
year ;  ought  not  suspicion  herself  to  blush,  in  pretending  that  the 


THE  FEDERALIST.  205 

representatives  of  the  United  States,  elected  freely  by  the  whole 
BODY  of  the  people,  every  second  year,  cannot  be  safely  entrusted 
with  a  discretion  over  such  appropriations,  expressly  limited  to 
the  short  period  of  two  years  1 

A  bad  cause  seldom  fails  to  betray  itself.  Of  this  truth,  the 
management  of  the  opposition  to  the  federal  government,  is  an 
unvaried  exemplification.  But  among  all  the  blunders  which  have 
been  committed,  none  is  more  striking  than  the  attempt  to  enlist 
on  that  side,  the  prudent  jealousy  entertained  by  the  people,  of 
standing  armies.  The  attempt  has  awakened  fully  the  public  at- 
tention to  that  important  subject;  and  has  led  to  investigations 
which  must  terminate  in  a  thorough  and  universal  conviction,  not 
only  that  the  constitution  has  provided  the  most  effectual  guards 
against  danger  from  that  quarter,  but  that  nothing  short  of  a  con- 
stitution fully  adequate  to  the  national  defence,  and  the  preserva- 
tion of  the  union,  can  save  America  from  as  many  standing  ar- 
mies, as  it  may  be  split  into  states  or  confederacies ;  and  from 
such  a  progressive  augmentation  of  these  establishments  in  each, 
as  will  render  them  as  burthensome  to  the  properties,  and  ominous 
to  the  liberties  of  the  people,  as  any  establishment  that  can  be- 
come necessary,  under  a  united  and  efficient  government,  must  be 
tolerable  to  the  former  and  safe  to  the  latter. 

The  palpable  necessity  of  the  power  to  provide  and  maintain  a 
navy,  has  protected  that  part  of  the  constitution  against  a  spirit 
of  censure,  which  has  spared  few  other  parts.  It  must  indeed  be 
numbered  among  the  greatest  blessings  of  America,  that  as  her 
union  will  be  the  only  source  of  her  maritime  strength,  so  this  will 
be  a  principal  source  of  her  security  against  danger  from  abroad. 
In  this  respect,  our  situation  bears  another  likeness  to  the  insular 
advantage  of  Great  Britain.  The  batteries  most  capable  of  re- 
pelling foreign  enterprises  on  our  safety,  are  happily  such  as  can 
never  be  turned  by  a  perfidious  government  against  our  liberties. 

The  inhabitants  of  the  Atlantic  frontier,  are  all  of  them  deeply 
interested  in  this  provision  for  naval  protection.  If  they  have 
hitherto  been  suflfered  to  sleep  quietly  in  their  beds  ;  if  their  prop- 
erty has  remained  safe  against  the  predatory  spirit  of  licentious 
adventurers;  if  their  maritime  towns  have  not  yet  been  compelled 
to  ransom  themselves  from  the  terrours  of  a  conflagration,  by 
yielding  to  the  exactions  of  daring  and  sudden  invaders,  these  in- 
stances of  good  fortune  are  not  to  be  ascribed  to  the  capacity  of 
the  existing  government  for  the  protection  of  those  from  whom  it 
claims  allegiance,  but  to  causes  that  are  fugitive  and  fallacious. 
If  we  except  perhaps  Virginia  and  Maryland,  which  are  peculiar- 


206  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ly  vulnerable  on  their  eastern  frontiers,  no  part  of  the  union  ought 
to  feel  more  anxiety  on  this  subject  than  New  York.  Her  sea- 
coast  is  extensive.  A  very  important  district  of  the  state,  is  an 
island.  Tlie  state  itself  is  penetrated  by  a  large  navigable  river 
for  more  than  fifty  leagues.  Tlie  great  emporium  of  its  com- 
merce, the  great  reservoir  of  its  wealth,  lies  every  moment  at  the 
mercy  of  events,  and  may  be  almost  regarded  as  a  hostage  for 
ignominious  compliances  with  the  dictates  of  a  foreign  enemy; 
or  even  with  the  rapacious  demands  of  pirates  and  barbarians. 
Should  a  war  be  the  result  of  the  precarious  situation  of  Euro- 
pean affairs,  and  all  the  unruly  passions  attending  it  be  let  loose 
on  the  ocean,  our  escape  from  insults  and  depredations,  not  only 
on  tliat  element,  but  every  part  of  the  other  bordering  on  it,  will 
be  truly  miraculous.  In  tlie  present  condition  of  America,  the 
states  more  immediately  exposed  to  these  calamities  have  nothing 
to  hope  from  the  phantom  of  a  general  government  which  now 
exists  ;  and  if  their  single  resources  were  equal  to  the  task  of  for- 
tifyinaf  themselves  against  the  danger,  the  objects  to  be  protected 
would  be  almost  consumed  by  the  means  of  protecting  them. 

The  power  of  regulating  and  calling  forth  the  militia,  has  been 
already  sufficiently  vindicated  and  explained. 

The  power  of  levying  and  borrowing  money,  being  the  sinew 
of  that  which  is  to  be  exerted  in  the  national  defence,  is  properly 
thrown  into  the  same  class  with  it.  This  power,  also,  has  been 
examined  already  with  much  attention,  and  has,  I  trust,  been 
clearly  shown  to  be  necessary,  both  in  the  extent  and  form  given 
to  it  by  the  constitution.  I  will  address  one  additional  reflection 
only,  to  those  who  contend  that  the  power  ought  to  have  been  re- 
strained to  external  taxation. ...by  which  they  mean,  taxes  on  arti- 
cles imported  from  other  countries.  It  cannot  be  doubted,  that 
this  will  always  be  a  valuable  source  of  revenue  ;  that  for  a  con- 
siderable time,  it  must  be  a  principal  source  ;  that  at  this  moment, 
it  is  an  essential  one.  But  we  may  form  very  mistaken  ideas  on 
this  subject,  if  we  do  not  call  to  mind  in  our  calculations,  that  the 
extent  of  revenue  drawn  from  foreign  commerce,  must  vary  with 
the  variations,  both  in  the  extent  and  the  kind  of  imports  ;  and 
that  these  variations  do  not  correspond  with  the  progress  of  popu- 
lation, which  must  be  the  general  measure  of  the  public  wants. 
As  long  as  agriculture  continues  the  sole  field  of  labour,  the  im- 
portation of  manufactures  must  increase  as  the  consumers  multi- 
ply. As  soon  as  domestic  manufactures  are  begun  by  the  hands 
not  called  for  by  agriculture,  the  imported  manufactures  will  de- 
crease as  the  numbers  of  people  increase.      In  a  more  remote 


THE  FEDERALIST.  207 

stage,  the  imports  may  consist  in  a  considerable  part  of  raw  ma- 
terials, which  will  be  wrought  into  articles  for  exportation,  and 
will,  therefore,  require  rather  the  encouragement  of  bounties,  than 
to  be  loaded  with  discouraging  duties.  A  system  of  government, 
meant  for  duration,  ought  to  contemplate  these  revolutions,  and 
be  able  to  accommodate  itself  to  them. 

Some,  wlio  have  not  denied  the  necessity  of  the  power  of  taxa- 
tion, have  grounded  a  very  fierce  attack  against  the  constitution, 
on  the  language  in  which  it  is  defined.  It  has  been  urged  and 
echoed,  that  the  power  "  to  lay  and  collect  taxes,  duties,  imposts, 
"  and  excises,  to  pay  the  debts,  and  provide  for  the  common  de- 
"  fence  and  general  welfare  of  the  United  States,"  amounts  to  an 
vmlimited  commission  to  exercise  every  power,  which  may  be  al- 
leged to  be  necessary  for  the  common  defence  or  general  welfare. 
No  stronger  proof  could  be  given  of  the  distress  under  which 
these  writers  labour  for  objections,  than  their  stooping  to  such  a 
misconstruction. 

Had  no  other  enumeration  or  definition  of  the  powers  of  the  con- 
gress been  found  in  the  constitution,  than  the  general  expressions 
just  cited  the  authors  of  the  objection  might  have  had  some  colour 
for  it ;  though  it  would  have  been  difficult  to  find  a  reason  for  so 
awkward  a  form  of  describing  an  authority  to  legislate  in  all  possi- 
ble cases.  A  power  to  destroy  the  freedom  of  the  press,  the  trial 
by  jury,  or  even  to  regulate  the  course  of  descents,  or  the  forms  of 
conveyances,  must  be  very  singularly  expressed  by  the  terms  "  to 
"raise  money  for  the  general  welfiire." 

But  what  colour  can  the  objection  have,  when  a  specification  of 
the  objects  alluded  to  by  these  general  terms,  immediately  follows  ; 
and  is  not  even  separated  by  a  longer  pause  than  a  semicolon  ?  If 
the  different  parts  of  the  same  instrument  ought  to  be  so  expound- 
ed, as  to  give  meaning  to  every  part  which  will  bear  it ;  shall  one 
part  of  the  same  sentence  be  excluded  altogether  from  a  share  in 
the  meaning;  and  shall  the  more  doubtful  and  indefinite  terms  be 
retained  in  their  full  extent,  and  the  clear  and  precise  expressions 
be  denied  any  signification  whatsoever?  For  what  purpose  could 
the  enumeration  of  particular  powers  be  inserted,  if  these  and  all 
others  wei-e  meant  to  be  included  in  the  preceding  general  power? 
Nothing  is  more  natural  or  common,  than  first  to  use  a  general 
phrase,  and  then  to  explain  and  qualify  it  by  a  recital  of  particu- 
lars. But  the  idea  of  an  enumeration  of  particulars,  which  neith- 
er explain  nor  qualify  the  general  meaning,  and  can  have  no  other 
effect  than  to  confound  and  mislead,  is  an  absurdity,  which,  as  we 
are  reduced  to  the  dilemma  of  charging  either  on  the  authors  of 


208  THE  FEDERALIST. 

the  objection  or  on  the  authors  of  the  constitution,  we  must  take 
the  liberty  of  supposing,  had  not  its  origin  with  the  latter. 

The  objection  here  is  the  more  extraordinary,  as  it  appears,  that 
the  language  used  by  the  convention  is  a  copy  from  the  articles 
of  confederation.  The  objects  of  the  union  among  the  states,  as 
described  in  article  third,  are,  "  their  common  defence,  security 
"  of  their  liberties,  and  mutual  and  general  welfare."  The  terms 
of  article  eighth  are  still  more  identical  :  "Ail  charges  of  war, 
"  and  all  other  expenses,  that  shall  be  incurred  for  the  common 
"  defence  or  general  welfare,  and  allowed  by  the  United  States  in 
"  congress,  shall  be  defrayed  out  of  a  common  treasury,"  &amp;-c.  A 
similar  language  again  occurs  in  article  ninth.  Construe  either 
of  these  articles  by  the  rules  which  would  justify  the  construction 
put  on  the  new  constitution,  and  they  vest  in  the  existing  congress 
a  power  to  legislate  in  all  cases  whatsoever.  But  what  would  have 
been  thought  of  that  assembly,  if,  attaching  themselves  to  these 
general  expressions,  and  disregarding  the  specifications  which  as- 
certain and  limit  their  import,  they  had  exercised  an  unlimited 
power  of  providing  for  the  common  defence  and  general  welfare  1 
I  appeal  to  the  objectors  themselves,  whether  they  would  in  that 
case  have  employed  the  same  reasoning  in  justification  of  con- 
gress, as  they  now  make  use  of  against  the  convention.  How  dif- 
ficult it  is  for  errour  to  escape  its  own  condemnation  ! 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XLH. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 

The  same  View  Continued. 


The  second  class  of  powers,  lodged  in  the  general  government, 
consists  of  those  which  regulate  the  intercourse  with  foreign  na- 
tions, to  wit :  to  make  treaties  ;  to  send  and  receive  ambassadors, 
other  public  ministers,  and  consuls  ;  to  define  and  punish  piracies 
and  felonies  committed  on  the  high  seas,  and  oflFences  against  the 
jaw  of  nations  ;  to  regulate  foreign  commerce,  including  a  power 
to  prohibit,  after  the  year  1808,  the  importation  of  slaves,  and  to 
lay  an  intermediate  duty  of  ten  dollars  per  head,  as  a  discourage- 
ment to  such  importations. 

This  class  of  powers  forms  an  obvious  and  essential  branch  of 
the  federal  administration.  If  we  are  to  be  one  nation  in  any  re- 
respect,  it  clearly  ought  to  be  in  respect  to  other  nations. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  209 

The  powers  to  make  treaties,  and  to  send  and  receive  ambassa- 
dors, speak  their  own  propriety.  Both  of  them  are  comprised  in 
the  articles  of  confederation  ;  with  this  difference  only,  that  the 
former  is  disembarrassed  by  the  plan  of  the  convention  of  an  ex- 
ception, under  which  treaties  might  be  substantially  frustrated  by 
regulations  of  the  states ;  and  that  a  power  of  appointing  and  re- 
ceiving "  other  public  ministers  and  consuls,"  is  expressly  and  very 
properly  added  to  the  former  provision  concerning  ambassadors. 
The  term  ambassador,  if  taken  strictly,  as  seems  to  be  required 
by  the  second  of  the  articles  of  confederation,  comprehends  the 
highest  grade  only  of  public  ministers  ;  and  excludes  the  grades 
which  the  United  States  will  be  most  likely  to  prefer,  where  for- 
eign embassies  may  be  necessary.  And  under  no  latitude  of  con- 
struction will  the  term  comprehend  consuls.  Yet  it  has  been  found 
expedient,  and  has  been  the  practice  of  congress,  to  employ  the 
inferiour  grades  of  public  ministers  ;  and  to  send  and  receive  con- 
suls. 

It  is  true,  that  where  treaties  of  commerce  stipulate  for  the  mu- 
tual appointment  of  consuls,  whose  functions  are  connected  with 
commerce,  the  admission  of  foreign  consuls  may  fall  within  the 
power  of  making  commercial  treaties  ;  and  that  where  no  such 
treaties  exist,  the  mission  of  American  consuls  into  foreign  coun- 
tries may  pfrAfl7?s  be  covered  under  the  authority,  given  by  the 
ninth  article  of  the  confederation,  to  appoint  all  such  civil  officers 
y  as  may  be  necessary  for  managing  the  general  affairs  of  the  Unit- 
ed States.  But  the  admission  of  consuls  into  the  United  States, 
where  no  previous  treaty  has  stipulated  it,  seems  to  have  been  no- 
where provided  for.  A  supply  of  the  omission  is  one  of  the  lesser 
instances,  in  which  the  convention  have  improved  on  the  model 
before  them.  But  the  most  minute  provisions  become  important, 
"  when  they  tend  to  obviate  the  necessity  or  the  pretext  for  gradual 
and  unobserved  usurpations  of  power.  A  list  of  the  cases,  in 
which  congress  have  been  betrayed,  or  forced,  by  the  defects  of 
the  confederation,  into  violations  of  their  chartered  authorities, 
would  not  a  little  surprise  those  who  have  paid  no  attention  to  the 
subject;  and  would  be  no  inconsiderable  argument  in  favour  of 
the  new  constitution,  which  seems  to  have  provided  no  less  studi* 
ously  for  the  lesser,  than  the  more  obvious  and  striking  defects  of 
the  old. 

The  power  to  define  and  punish  piracies  and  felonies  commit- 
ted on  the  high  seas,  and  offences  against  the  law  of  nations,  be- 
longs with  equal  propriety  to  the  general  government ;  and  is  a 
Btili  greater  improvement  on  the  articles  of  confederation, 

rr'-t 


210  THE  FEDERALIST. 

These  articles  contain  no  provision  for  the  case  of  ofTences 
ao^ainst  the  law  of  nations :  and  consequently  leave  it  in  the  pow- 
er of  any  indiscreet  member  to  embroil  the  confederacy  with  for- 
eign nations. 

The  provision  of  the  federal  articles  on  the  subject  of  piracies 
and  felonies,  extends  no  farther  than  to  the  estabUishment  of  courts 
for  the  trial  of  these  oftences.  The  definition  of  piracies  might, 
perhapSjWithout  inconveniency,  be  left  to  the  law  of  nations;  though 
a  legislative  definition  of  them  is  found  in  most  municipal  codes. 
A  definition  of  felonies  on  the  high  seas,  is  evidently  requisite. 
Felony  is  a  term  of  loose  signification,  even  in  the  common  law  of 
England;  and  of  various  import  in  the  statute  law  of  that  king- 
dom. But  neither  the  common,  nor  the  statute  law  of  that,  or  of 
any  other  nation,  ought  to  be  a  standard  for  the  proceedings  of 
this,  unless  previously  made  its  own  by  legislative  adoption.  The 
meaning  of  the  term,  as  defined  in  the  codes  of  the  several  states, 
would  be  as  impracticable,  as  the  former  would  be  a  dishonourable 
and  illegitimate  guide.  It  is  not  precisely  the  same  in  any  two  of 
the  states ;  and  varies  in  each  with  every  revision  of  its  criminal 
laws.  For  the  sake  of  certainty  and  uniformity,  therefore,  the 
power  of  defining  felonies  in  this  case,  was  in  every  respect  neces- 
sary and  proper. 

The  regulation  of  foreign  commerce,  having  fallen  within  sev- 
eral views  which  have  been  taken  of  this  subject,  has  been  too 
fully  discussed  to  need  additional  proofs  here  of  its  being  properly 
submitted  to  the  federal  administration. 

It  were  doubtless  to  be  wished,  that  the  power  of  prohibiting  the 
importation  of  slaves,  had  not  been  postponed  until  the  year  1808, 
or  rather,  that  it  had  been  suffered  to  have  immediate  operation. 
But  it  is  not  difficult  to  account,  either  for  this  restriction  on  the 
general  government,  or  for  the  manner  in  which  the  whole  clause 
is  expressed.  It  ought  to  be  considered  as  a  great  point  gained  in 
favour  of  humanity,  that  a  period  of  twenty  years  may  terminate 
for  ever  within  these  states,  a  traffic  which  has  so  long  and  so  loud- 
ly upbraided  the  barbarism  of  modern  policy  ;  that  within  that 
period,  it  will  receive  a  considerable  discouragement  from  the  fed- 
eral government,  and  may  be  totally  abolished,  by  a  concurrence 
of  the  few  states  which  continue  the  unnatural  traffic,  in  the  pro- 
hibitory example  which  has  been  given  by  so  great  a  majority  of 
the  union.  Hrpjiy  would  it  be  for  the  unfortunate  Africans,  if  an 
equal  prospect  la.  before  them,  of  being  redeemed  from  the  op- 
pressions of  their  J'uropean  brethren  ! 

Attempts  have  been  made  to  pervert  this  clause  into  an  objec- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  211 

tion  against  the  constitution,  by  representing  it  on  one  side,  as  a 
criminal  toleration  of  an  illicit  practice  :  and  on  another,  as  cal- 
culated to  prevent  voluntary  and  beneficial  emigrations  from  Eu- 
rope to  America.  I  mention  these  misconstructions,  not  with  a 
view  to  give  them  an  answer,  for  they  deserve  none  ;  but  as  speci- 
mens of  the  manner  and  spirit,  in  which  some  have  thought  fit 
to  conduct  their  opposition  to  the  proposed  government. 

The  powers  included  in  the  third  class,  are  those  which  provide 
for  the  harmony  and  proper  intercourse  among  the  states. 

Under  this  head,  might  be  included  the  particular  restraints  im- 
posed on  the  authority  of  the  states,  and  certain  powers  of  the 
judicial  department ;  but  the  former  are  reserved  for  a  distinct 
class,  and  the  latter  will  be  particularly  examined,  when  we  arrive 
at  the  structure  and  organization  of  the  government.  I  shall  con- 
fine myself  to  a  cursory  review  of  the  remaining  powers  compre- 
hended under  this  third  description,  to  wit:  to  regulate  commerce 
among  the  several  states  and  the  Indian  tribes ;  to  coin  money, 
regulate  the  value  thereof,  and  of  foreign  coin  ;  to  provide  for  the 
punishment  of  counterfeiting  the  current  coin  and  securities  of  the 
United  States ;  to  fix  the  standard  of  weights  and  measures  ;  to 
establish  an  uniform  rule  of  naturalization,  and  uniform  laws  of 
bankruptcy  ;  to  prescribe  the  manner  in  which  the  public  acts,  re- 
cords, and  judicial  proceedings  of  each  state  shall  be  proved,  and 
the  eftect  they  shall  have  in  other  states  ;  and  to  establish  post-ofli- 
ces  and  post-roads. 

The  defect  of  power  in  the  existing  confederacy,  to  regulate 
the  commerce  between  its  several  members,  is  in  tlie  number  of 
those  which  have  been  clearly  pointed  out  by  experience.  To  the 
proofs  and  remarks  which  former  papers  have  brought  into  view 
on  this  subject,  it  may  be  added,  that  without  this  supplemental 
provision,  the  great  and  essential  power  of  regulating  foreign  com- 
merce, would  have  been  incomplete  and  inetfectual.  A  very  ma- 
terial object  of  this  power  was  the  relief  of  the  states  which  im- 
port and  export  through  other  states,  from  the  improper  contribu- 
tions levied  on  them  by  the  latter.  Were  these  at  liberty  to  regu- 
late the  trade  between  state  and  state,  it  must  be  foreseen,  that 
ways  would  be  found  out,  to  load  the  articles  of  import  and  ex- 
port, during  the  passage  through  their  jurisdiction,  with  duties 
which  would  fall  on  the  makers  of  the  latter,  and  the  consumers 
of  the  former.  We  may  be  assured,  by  past  experience,  that  such 
a  practice  would  be  introduced  by  future  contrivances  ;  and  both 
by  that  and  a  common  knowledge  of  human  affairs,  that  it  would 
nourish  unceasing  animosities,  and  not  improbably  terminate  in 


212  THE  FEDERALIST. 

sericus  interruptions  of  the  public  tranquillity.  To  those  who  do 
not  view  the  question  through  the  medium  of  passion  or  of  inter- 
est, the  desire  of  the  commercial  states  to  collect,  in  any  form,  an 
indirect  revenue  from  their  uncommercial  neighbours,  must  appear 
not  less  impolitic  than  it  is  unfair  ;  since  it  would  stimulate  the  in- 
jured party,  by  resentment  as  well  as  interest,  to  resort  to  less 
convenient  channels  for  their  foreign  trade.  But  the  mild  voice 
of  reason,  pleading  the  cause  of  an  enlarged  and  permanent  in- 
terest, is  but  too  often  drowned  before  public  bodies  as  well  as  in- 
dividuals, by  the  clamours  of  an  impatient  avidity  for  immediate 
and  immoderate  gain. 

The  necessity  of  a  superintending  authority  over  the  reciprocal 
trade  of  confederated  states,  has  been  illustrated  by  other  exam- 
ples as  well  as  our  own.  In  Switzerland,  where  the  union  is  so 
very  slight,  each  canton  is  obliged  to  allow  to  merchandises,  a 
passage  through  its  jurisdiction  into  other  cantons,  without  an  aug- 
mentation of  the  tolls.  In  Germany,  it  is  a  law  of  the  empire, 
that  the  princes  and  states  shall  not  lay  tolls  or  customs  on  bridges, 
rivers,  or  passages,  without  the  consent  of  the  emperor  and  diet ; 
though  it  appears  from  a  quotation  in  an  antecedent  paper,  that 
the  practice  in  this,  as  in  many  other  instances  in  that  confedera- 
cy, has  not  followed  the  law,  and  has  produced  there  the  mischiefs 
which  have  been  foreseen  here.  Among  the  restraints  imposed 
by  the  union  of  the  Netherlands  on  its  members,  one  is,  that  they 
shall  not  establish  imposts  disadvantageous  to  their  neighbours, 
without  the  general  permission. 

The  regulation  of  commerce  with  the  Indian  tribes,  is  very 
properly  unfettered  from  two  limitations  in  the  articles  of  confed- 
eration, which  render  the  provision  obscure  and  contradictory. 
The  power  is  there  restrained  to  Indians,  not  members  of  any  of 
the  states,  and  is  not  to  violate  or  infringe  the  legislative  right  of 
any  state  within  its  own  limits.  What  description  of  Indians  are 
to  be  deemed  members  of  a  state,  is  not  yet  settled  ;  and  has  been 
a  question  of  frequent  perplexity  and  contention  in  the  federal 
councils.  And  how  the  trade  with  Indians,  though  not  members 
of  a  state,  yet  residing  within  its  legislative  jurisdiction,  can  be 
regulated  by  an  external  authority,  without  so  far  intruding  on  the 
internal  rights  of  legislation,  is  absolutely  incomprehensible. 
This  is  not  the  only  case,  in  which  the  articles  of  confederation 
have  inconsiderately  endeavoured  to  accomplish  impossibilities; 
to  reconcile  a  partial  sovereignty  in  the  union,  with  complete  sove- 
reignty in  the  states  ;  to  subvert  a  mathematical  axiom,  by  taking 
away  a  part,  and  letting  the  whole  remain. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  213 

All  that  need  be  remarked  on  the  power  to  coin  money,  regulate 
the  vahie  thereof,  and  of  foreign  coin,  is,  that  by  providing  for 
this  last  case,  the  constitution  iias  suppHcd  a  material  omission  in 
the  articles  of  confederation.  Tiie  authority  of  the  existing  con- 
gress is  restrained  to  the  regulation  of  coin  struck  by  their  own 
authority,  or  that  of  the  respective  states.  It  must  be  seen  at  once, 
that  the  proposed  uniformity  in  the  I'rt/we;  of  the  current  coin,  might 
be  destroyed  by  subjecting  that  of  foreign  coin  to  the  difterent  reg- 
ulations of  the  ditierent  states. 

The  punishment  of  counterfeiting  the  public  securities,  as  well 
as  the  current  coin,  is  submitted  of  course  to  that  authority  which 
is  to  secure  the  value  of  both. 

The  regulation  of  weights  and  measures  is  transferred  from  the 
articles  of  confederation,  and  is  founded  on  like  considerations 
with  the  preceding  power  of  regulating  coin. 

The  dissimilarity  in  the  rules  of  naturalization  has  long  been 
remarked  as  a  fault  in  our  system,  and  as  laying  a  foundation  for 
intricate  and  delicate  questions.  In  the  fourth  article  of  the  con- 
federation, it  is  declared,  "  that  the  free  inhabitants  of  each  of 
"these  states,  paupers,  vagabonds,  and  fugitives  from  justice  ex- 
"  cepted,  shall  be  entitled  to  all  privileges  and  immunities  of  free 
*'  citizens  in  the  several  states;  and  the  people  of  each  state  shall, 
*'  in  every  other,  enjoy  all  the  privileges  of  trade  and  commerce," 
&amp;c.  There  is  a  confusion  of  language  here,  which  is  remarkable. 
Why  the  terms  free  inhabitants  are  used  in  one  part  of  the  article, 
free  citizens  in  another,  d^nd  people  in  another;  or  what  was  meant 
by  superadding  to  "  all  piivileges  and  innnunities  of  free  citizens" 
...."  all  the  privileges  of  trade  and  commerce,"  cannot  easily  be 
determined.  It  seems  to  be  a  construction  scarcely  avoidable, 
however,  that  those  who  come  under  the  denomination  oi  free  in- 
habitants of  a  state,  although  not  citizens  of  such  state,  are  en- 
titled, in  every  other  slate,  to  all  the  privileges  of  free  citizens  of  the 
latter ;  that  is,  to  greater  privileges  than  they  may  be  entitled  to 
in  their  own  state  :  so  that  it  may  be  in  the  power  of  a  particular 
state,  or  rather  every  state  is  laid  under  a  necessity,  not  only  to 
confer  the  rights  of  citizenship  in  other  states  upon  any  whom  it 
may  admit  to  such  rights  within  itself,  but  upon  any  whom  it  may 
allow  to  become  inhabitants  within  its  jurisdiction.  But  were  an 
exposition  of  the  term  "inhabitants"  to  be  admitted,  which  would 
confine  the  stipulated  privileges  to  citizens  alone,  the  difficulty  is 
diminished  only,  not  removed.  The  very  improper  power  would 
still  be  retained  by  each  state,  of  naturalizing  aliens,  in  GyQ.ry  other 
state.     In  one  state,  residence   for  a  short  term   confers  all  the 


214  THE  FEDERALIST. 

rights  of  citizenship  :  in  another,  qualifications  of  greater  import- 
ance are  required.  An  alien,  therefore  legally  incapacitated  for 
certain  rights  in  the  latter,  may,  by  previous  residence  only  in  the 
former,  elude  his  incapacity  ;  and  thus  the  law  of  one  state  be 
preposterously  rendered  paramount  to  the  law  of  another,  within 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  other. 

We  owe  it  to  mere  casualty,  that  very  serious  embarrassments 
on  this  subject  have  been  hitherto  escaped.  By  the  laws  of  sev- 
eral states,  certain  descriptions  of  aliens,  who  had  rendered  them- 
selves obnoxious,  were  laid  under  interdicts  inconsistent,  not  only 
with  the  rights  of  citizenship,  but  with  the  privileges  of  residence. 
What  would  have  been  the  consequence,  if  such  persons,  by  resi- 
dence, or  otherwise,  had  acquired  the  character  of  citizens  under 
the  laws  of  another  state,  and  then  asserted  their  rights  as  such, 
both  to  residence  and  citizenship,  within  the  state  proscribing 
them  1  Whatever  the  legal  consequences  might  have  been,  other 
consequences  would  probably  have  resulted  of  too  serious  a  na- 
ture, not  to  be  provided  against.  The  new  constitution  has  ac- 
cordingly, with  great  propriety,  made  provision  against  them,  and 
all  others  proceeding  from  the  defect  of  the  confederation  on  this 
head,  by  authorizing  the  general  government  to  establish  an  uni- 
form rule  of  naturalization  throughout  the  United  States. 

The  power  of  establishing  uniform  laws  of  bankruptcy,  is  so 
intimately  connected  with  the  regulation  of  commerce,  and  will 
prevent  so  many  frauds  where  the  parties  or  their  property  may 
lie,  or  be  removed  into  different  states,  that  the  expediency  of  it 
seems  not  likely  to  be  drawn  into  question. 

The  power  of  prescribing,  by  general  laws,  the  manner  in  which 
the  public  acts,  records,  and  judicial  proceedings  of  each  state, 
shall  be  proved,  and  the  effect  they  shall  have  in  other  states,  is  an 
evident  and  valuable  improvement  on  the  clause  relating  to  this 
subject  in  the  articles  of  confederation.  The  meaning  of  the  lat- 
ter is  extremely  indeterminate  ;  and  can  be  of  little  importance 
under  any  interpretation  which  it  will  bear.  The  power  here  es- 
tablished, may  be  rendered  a  very  convenient  instrument  of  jus- 
tice, and  be  particularly  beneficial  on  the  borders  of  contiguous 
states,  where  the  effects  liable  to  justice  may  be  suddenly  and  se- 
cretly translated  in  any  stage  of  the  process,  within  a  foreign  ju- 
risdiction. 

The  power  of  establishing  post-roads  must,  in  every  view,  be  a 
harmless  power  ;  and  may  perhaps,  by  judicious  management,  be- 
come productive  of  great  public  conveniency.  Nothing  which 
tends  to  facilitate  the  intercourse  between  the  states,  can  be  deem- 
ed unworthy  of  the  public  care.  PUBLIUS. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  216 

NO.  XLIIL 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 

Tlie  same  View  Continued. 
The  fourth  class  comprises  the   following  miscellanecus  pow- 
ers. 

1.  A  power  to  ♦'  promote  the  progress  of  science  and  useful  arts, 
"  by  securing  for  a  limited  time,  to  authors  and  inventors,  the  ex- 
*' elusive  right  to  their  respective  writings  and  discoveries." 

The  utility  of  this  power  will  scarcely  be  questioned.  The 
copyright  of  authors  has  been  solemnly  adjudged  in  Great  Britain, 
to  be  a  right  at  common  law.  The  right  to  useful  inventions, 
seems  with  equal  reason  to  belong  to  the  inventors.  The  public 
good  fully  coincides  in  both  cases  with  the  claims  of  individuals. 
The  states  cannot  separately  make  effectual  provision  for  either  of 
the  cases,  and  most  of  them  have  anticipated  the  decision  of  this 
point,  by  laws  passed  at  the  instance  of  congress. 

2.  "  To  exercise  exclusive  legislation  in  all  cases  whatsoever, 
•'over  such  district,  (not  exceeding  ten  miles  square,)  as  may,  by 
♦*  cession  of  particular  states,  and  the  acceptance  of  congress,  be- 
*'  come  the  seat  of  the  government  of  the  United  States ;  and  to 
*♦  exercise  like  authority  over  all  places  purchased  by  the  consent 
"  of  the  legislature  of  the  state,  in  which  the  same  shall  be,  for 
•'  the  erection  of  forts,  magazines,  arsenals,  dock-yards,  and  other 
*'  needful  buildings." 

The  indispensable  necessity  of  complete  authority  at  the  seat 
of  government,  carries  its  own  evidence  with  it.  It  is  a  power 
exercised  by  every  legislature  of  the  union,  I  might  say  of  the 
world,  by  virtue  of  its  general  supremacy.  Without  it,  not  only 
the  public  authority  might  be  insulted  and  its  proceedings  be  inter- 
rupted with  impunity,  but  a  dependence  of  the  members  of  the 
general  government  on  the  state  comprehending  the  seat  of  the 
government,  for  protection  in  the  exercise  of  their  duty,  might 
bring  on  the  national  councils  an  imputation  of  awe  or  influence, 
equally  dishonourable  to  the  government  and  dissatisfactory  to  the 
other  members  of  the  confederacy.  This  consideration  has  the 
more  weight,  as  the  gradual  accumulation  of  public  improvements 
at  the  stationary  residence  of  the  government,  would  be  both  too 
great  a  public  pledge  to  be  left  in  the  hands  of  a  single  state,  and 
would  create  so  many  obstacles  to  a  removal  of  the  government, 
as  still  further  to  abridge  its  necessary  independence.  The  extent 
of  this  federal  district  is  sufficiently  circumscribed  to  satisfy  every 
jealousy  of  an  opposite  nature.     And  as  it  is  to  be  appropriated  to 


216  THE  FEDERALIST. 

this  use  witli  the  consent  of  the  state  ceding  it ;  as  the  state  will 
no  doubt  provide  in  the  compact  for  the  rights,  and  the  consent  of 
the  citizens  inhabiting  it;  as  the  inhabitants  will  find  sufficient  in- 
ducements of  interest,  to  become  wilHng  parties  to  the  cession  ;  as 
they  will  have  had  their  voice  in  the  election  of  the  government, 
which  is  to  exercise  authority  over  them  ;  as  a  municipal  legisla- 
ture for  local  purposes,  derived  from  their  own  suffrages,  will  of 
course  be  allowed  them  ;  and  as  the  authority  of  the  legislature 
of  the  state,  and  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  ceded  part  of  it,  to 
concur  in  the  cession,  will  be  derived  from  the  whole  people  of 
the  state,  in  their  adoption  of  the  constitution,  every  imaginable 
objection  seems  to  be  obviated. 

The  necessity  of  a  like  authority  over  forts,  magazines,  &amp;c., 
established  by  the  general  government,  is  not  less  evident.  The 
public  money  expended  on  such  places,  and  the  public  property 
deposited  in  them,  require,  that  they  should  be  exempt  from  the 
authority  of  the  particular  state.  Nor  would  it  be  proper  for  the 
places  on  which  the  security  of  the  entire  union  may  depend,  to 
be  in  any  degree  dependent  on  a  particular  member  of  it.  All 
objections  and  scruples  are  here  also  obviated,  by  requiring  the 
concurrence  of  the  states  concerned  in  every  such  establishyient. 

3.  "  To  declare  the  punishment  of  treason,  but  no  attainder  of 
"treason  sliall  work  corruption  of  blood,  or  forfeiture,  except  dur- 
"  ing  the  life  of  the  person  attainted." 

As  treason  may  be  committed  against  the  United  States,  the 
authority  of  the  United  States  ought  to  be  enabled  to  punish  it  ; 
but  as  newfangled  and  artificial  treasons  have  been  the  great  en- 
gines by  which  violent  factions,  the  natural  offspring  of  free  gov- 
ernments, have  usually  wreaked  their  alternate  malignity  on  each 
other,  the  convention  have,  with  great  judgment,  opposed  a  bar- 
rier to  this  peculiar  danger,  by  inserting  a  constitutional  definition 
of  the  crime,  fixing  the  proof  necessary  for  conviction  of  it,  and 
restraining  the  congress,  even  in  punishing  it,  from  extending  the 
consequences  of  guilt  beyond  the  person  of  its  author. 

4.  "  To  admit  new  states  into  the  union  ;  but  no  new  state  shall 
"  be  formed  or  erected  within  the  jurisdiction  of  any  other  state  ; 
"nor  any  state  be  formed  by  the  junction  of  two  or  more  states, 
"  or  parts  of  states,  withnnt  the  consent  of  the  legislatures  of  the 
"  states  concerned,  as  well  as  of  the  congress." 

In  the  articles  of  confederation,  no  provision  is  found  on  this 
important  subject.  Canada  was  to  be  admitted  of  right,  on  her 
joining  in  the  measures  of  the  United  States  ;  and  the  other  colo- 
nics^ by  which  were  evidently  meant,  the  other  British  colonies,  at 


THE  FEDERALIST.  217 

the  discretion  of  nine  states.  The  eventual  establishment  of  new 
states,  seems  to  have  been  overlooked  by  the  compilers  of  that  in- 
strument. We  have  seen  the  inconvenience  of  this  omission,  and 
the  assumption  of  power  into  which  congress  have  been  led  by  it. 
With  great  propriety,  therefore,  has  the  new  system  supplied  the 
defect.  The  general  precaution,  that  no  new  states  shall  be  form- 
ed, without  the  concurrence  of  the  federal  authority,  and  that  of 
the  states  concerned,  is  consonant  to  the  principles  which  ouo-ht 
to  govern  such  transactions.  The  particular  precaution  against 
the  erection  of  new  states,  by  the  partition  of  a  state  without  its 
consent,  quiets  the  jealousy  of  the  larger  states  ;  as  that  of  the 
smaller  is  quieted  by  a  like  precaution,  against  a  junction  of  states 
without  their  consent. 

5.  "  To  dispose  of,  and  make  all  needful  rules  and  regulations, 
"  respecting  the  territory  or  other  property,  belonging  to  the  Unit- 
"  ed  States,  with  a  proviso,  that  nothing  in  the  constitution  shall 
"  be  so  construed,  as  to  prejudice  any  claims  of  the  United  States, 
"  or  of  any  particular  state." 

This  is  a  power  of  very  great  importance,  and  required  by  con- 
siderations, similar  to  those  which  show  the  propriety  of  the 
former.  The  proviso  annexed,  is  proper  in  itself,  and  was  proba- 
bly rendered  absolutely  necessary  by  jealousies  and  questions  con- 
cerning the  western  territory  sufficiently  known  to  the  public. 

6.  "  To  guaranty  to  every  state  in  the  union  a  republican  form 
"  of  government;  to  protect  each  of  them  against  invasion  ;  and, 
"  on  application  of  the  legislature  or  of  the  executive,  (when  the 
"  legislature  cannot  be  convened,)  against  domestic  violence." 

In  a  confederacy  founded  on  republican  principles,  and  com- 
posed of  republican  members,  the  superintending  government 
ought  clearly  to  possess  authority  to  defend  the  system  against 
aristocratic  or  nionaichical  innovations.  The  more  intimate  the 
nature  of  such  an  union  may  be,  the  greater  interest  have  the 
members  in  the  political  institutions  of  each  other  ;  and  the  great- 
er right  to  insist,  that  the  forms  of  government  under  which  the 
compact  was  entered  into,  should  be  substantially  maintained. 

But  a  right  implies  a  remedy  ;  and  where  else  could  the  remedy 
be  deposited,  than  where  it  is  deposited  by  the  constitution  ?  Gov- 
ernments of  dissimilar  principles  and  forms  have  been  found  less 
adapted  to  a  federal  coalition  of  any  sort,  than  those  of  a  kindred 
nature.  "  As  the  confederate  republic  of  Germany,"  says  Mon- 
tesquieu, "  consists  of  free  cities,  and  petty  states, subject  to  differ- 
"  ent  princes,  experience  shows  us,  that  it  is  more  imperfect,  than 
"  that  of  Holland  and  Switzerland."  "  Greece  was  undone,"  he 
36 


218  THE  FEDERALIST. 

adds,  '•  as  soon  as  the  king  of  Macedon  obtained  a  seat  among 
♦'  the  Amphyctions."  In  the  latter  case,  no  doubt,  the  dispropor- 
tionate force,  as  well  as  the  monarchical  form  of  the  new  confed- 
erate, had  its  share  of  influence  on  the  events. 

It  may  possibly  be  asked,  what  need  there  could  be  of  such  a 
precaution,  and  whether  it  may  not  become  a  pretext  for  altera- 
tions in  the  state  governments,  without  the  concurrence  of  the 
states  themselves.  These  questions  admit  of  ready  answers.  If 
the  interposition  of  the  general  government  should  not  be  needed, 
the  provision  for  such  an  event  will  be  a  harmless  superfluity  only 
in  the  constitution.  But  who  can  say,  what  experiments  may  be 
produced  by  the  caprice  of  particular  states,  by  the  ambition  of 
enterprising  leaders,  or  by  the  intrigues  and  influence  of  foreign 
powers  ?  To  the  second  question  it  may  be  answered,  that  if  the 
general  government  should  interpose  by  virtue  of  this  constitu- 
tional authority,  it  will  be  of  course  bound  to  pursue  the  authority. 
But  the  authority  extends  no  farther  than  to  a  guaranty  of  a  repub- 
lican form  of  government,  which  supposes  a  preexisting  govern- 
ment of  the  form  which  is  to  be  guaranteed.  As  long,  therefore,  as 
the  existing  republican  forms  are  continued  by  the  states,  they  are 
guaranteed  by  the  federal  constitution.  Whenever  the  states  may 
choose  to  substitute  other  republican  forms,  they  have  a  right  to  do 
so,  and  to  claim  the  federal  guaranty  for  the  latter.  The  only  re- 
striction imposed  on  them  is,  that  they  shall  not  exchange  repub- 
lican for  anti-republican  constitutions  ;  a  restriction  which,  it  is 
presumed,  will  hardly  be  considered  as  a  grievance. 

A  protection  against  invasion  is  due,  from  every  society,  to  the 
parts  composing  it.  The  latitude  of  the  expression  here  used 
seems  to  secure  each  state,  not  only  against  foreign  hostility,  but 
against  ambitious  or  vindictive  enterprises  of  its  more  powerful 
neighbours.  The  history,  both  of  ancient  and  modern  confedera- 
cies, proves,  that  the  weaker  members  of  the  union  ought  not  to 
be  insensible  to  the  policy  of  this  article. 

Protection  against  domestic  violence  is  added  with  equal  pro- 
priety. It  has  been  remarked,  that  even  among  the  Swiss  cantons, 
which,  properly  speaking,  are  not  under  one  government,  provis- 
ion is  made  for  this  object :  and  the  history  of  that  league  informs 
us,  that  mutual  aid  is  frequently  claimed  and  afforded  ;  and  as  well 
by  the  most  democratic,  as  the  other  cantons.  A  recent  and  well- 
known  event  among  ourselves  has  warned  us  to  be  prepared  for 
emergencies  of  a  like  nature. 

At  first  view,  it  might  seem  not  to  square  with  the  republican 
theory,  to  suppose,  either  that  a  majority  have  not  the  right,  or 


THE  FEDERALIST,  219 

that  a  minority  will  have  the  force,  to  subvert  a  government ;  and 
consequently,  that  the  federal  interposition  can  never  be  required, 
but  when  it  would  be  improper.  But  theoretic  reasoning,  in  this, 
as  in  most  other  cases,  must  be  qualified  by  the  lessons  of  practice. 
Why  may  not  illicit  combinations,  for  purposes  of  violence,  be 
formed  as  well  by  a  majority  of  a  state,  especially  a  small  state, 
as  by  a  majority  of  a  county,  or  a  district  of  the  same  state  ;  and 
if  the  authority  of  the  state  ought  in  the  latter  case  to  protect  the 
local  magistracy,  ought  not  the  federal  authority  in  the  former  to 
support  the  state  authority  ]  Besides,  there  are  certain  parts  of 
the  state  constitutions,  which  are  so  interwoven  with  the  federal 
constitution,  that  a  violent  blow  cannot  be  given  to  the  one,  without 
communicating  the  wound  to  the  other.  Insurrections  in  a  state 
will  rarely  induce  a  federal  interposition,  unless  the  number  con- 
cerned in  them  bear  some  proportion  to  the  friends  of  government. 
It  will  be  much  belter,  that  the  violence  in  such  cases  should  be 
repressed  by  the  superintending  power,  than  that  the  majority 
should  be  left  to  maintain  their  cause  by  a  bloody  and  obstinate 
contest.  The  existence  of  a  right  to  interpose,  will  generally  pre- 
vent the  necessity  of  exerting  it. 

Is  it  true,  that  force  and  right  are  necessarily  on  the  saine  side 
in  republican  governments  ?  May  not  the  minor  party  possess 
such  a  superiority  of  pecuniary  resources,  of  military  talents  and 
experience,  or  of  secret  succours  from  foreign  powers,  as  will  ren- 
der it  superiour  also  in  an  appeal  to  the  sword  1  May  not  a  more 
compact  and  advantageous  position  turn  the  scale  on  the  same 
side,  against  a  superiour  number  so  situated  as  to  be  less  capa- 
ble of  a  prompt  and  collected  exertion  of  its  strength  ?  Noth- 
ing can  be  more  chimerical  than  to  imagine,  that  in  a  trial  of  ac- 
tual force,  victory  may  be  calculated  by  the  rules  which  prevail  in 
a  census  of  the  inhabitants,  or  which  determine  the  event  of  an 
election  !  May  it  not  happen,  in  fine,  that  the  minority  of  citizens 
may  become  a  majority  of  persons,  by  the  accession  of  alien  resi- 
dents, of  a  casual  concourse  of  adventures,  or  of  those  whom  the 
constitution  of  the  state  has  not  admitted  to  the  rights  of  sufFraore  1 
I  take  no  notice  of  an  unhappy  species  of  population  abounding 
in  some  of  the  states,  who,  during  the  calm  of  regular  government, 
are  sunk  below  the  level  of  men  ;  but  who,  in  the  tempestuous 
scenes  of  civil  violence,  may  emerge  into  the  human  character, 
and  give  a  superiority  of  strength  to  any  party  with  which  they 
may  associate  themselves. 

In  cases  where  it  may  be  doubtful  on  which  side  justice  lies, 
what  better  umpires  could  be  desired  by  two  violent  factions,  fly- 


920  THE  FEDERALIST. 

in"-  to  arms  and  tearing  a  state  to  pieces,  than  the  representatives 
of  confederate  states,  not  heated  by  the  local  flame?  To  the  im- 
partiality of  judges,  they  would  unite  the  affection  of  friends. 
Happy  would  it  be,  if  such  a  remedy  for  its  infirmities  could  be  en- 
joyed by  all  free  goveruments  ;  if  a  project  equally  effectual,  could 
be  tstab!ii;hed  for  the  universal  peace  of  mankind  ! 

Should  it  be  asked,  what  is  to  be  the  redress  for  an  insurrection 
pervading  all  the  states,  and  comprising  a  superiority  of  the  entire 
force,  though  not  a  consiitutional  right  ?  The  answer  must  be, 
that  such  a  case,  as  it  woidd  be  without  the  compass  of  human 
remedies,  so  it  is  fortunately  not  within  the  compass  of  human 
probability  ;  and  that  it  is  a  sufficient  recommendation  of  the  fed- 
eral constitution,  that  it  diminishes  the  risk  of  calamity,  for  which 
no  possible  constitution  can  provide  a  cure. 

Among  the  advantages  of  a  confederate  republic,  enumerated 
by  Montesquieu,  an  important  one  is,  "that  should  a  popular  in- 
"  surrection  happen  in  one  of  the  states,  the  others  are  able  to 
"  quell  it.  Should  abuses  creep  into  one  part,  they  are  reformed 
•'  by  those  that  remain  sound." 

7.  "  To  consider  all  debts  contracted,  and  engagements  enter- 
"  ed  into,  before  the  adoption  of  this  constitution,  as  being  no  less 
"valid  against  the  United  States  under  this  constitution,  than  un- 
'•  der  the  confederation." 

This  can  only  be  considered  as  a  declaratory  proposition  ;  and 
may  have  been  inserted,  among  other  reasons,  for  the  satisfac- 
tion of  the  foreign  creditors  of  the  United  States,  who  cannot 
be  strangers  to  the  pretended  doctrine,  that  a  change  in  the  politi- 
cal form  of  civil  society,  has  the  magical  effect  of  dissolving  its 
moral  obligations. 

Among  the  lesser  criticisms  which  have  been  exercised  on  the 
constitution,  it  has  been  remarked,  that  the  validity  of  engage- 
ments ought  to  have  been  asserted  in  favour  of  the  United  States, 
as  well  as  against  them  ;  and  in  the  spirit  which  usually  charac- 
terizes little  critics,  the  omission  has  been  transformed  and  mag- 
nified into  a  plot  against  the  national  rights.  The  authors  of  this 
discovery  may  be  told,  what  few  others  need  be  informed  of,  that 
88  engagements  are  in  their  nature  reciprocal,  an  assertion  of  their 
validity  on  one  side,  necessarily  involves  a  validity  on  the  other 
side  ;  and  that  as  the  article  is  merely  declaratory,  the  establish- 
ment of  the  principle  in  one  case,  is  sufficient  for  every  case. 
They  may  be  further  told,  that  every  constitution  must  limit  its 
precautions  to  dangers  that  are  not  altogether  imaginary ;  and 
that  no  real  danger  can  exist  that  the  government  would  dare^ 


THE  FEDERALIST.  221 

•with,  or  even  without,  this  constitutional  declaration  before  it,  to 
remit  the  debts  justly  due  to  the  public,  on  the  pretext  here  con- 
demned. 

8.  "  To  provide  for  amendments  to  be  ratified  by  three  fourths 
"of  the  states,  under  two  exceptions  only." 

That  useful  alterations  will  be  suggested  by  experience,  could 
not  but  be  foreseen.  It  was  requisite,  therefore,  that  a  mode  for 
introducing  tliem  should  be  provided.  The  mode  preferred  by  the 
convention  seems  to  be  stamped  with  every  mark  of  propriety. 
It  guards  equally  against  that  extreme  facility,  which  would  render 
the  constitution  too  mutable  ;  and  that  extreme  difficulty,  which 
might  perpetuate  its  discovered  faults.  It  moreover  equally  enables 
the  general  and  the  state  governments  to  originate  the  amendment 
of  errours,  as  they  may  be  pointed  out  by  the  experience  on  one  side, 
or  on  the  other.  Tlie  exception  in  favour  of  the  equality  of  suf- 
frage in  the  senate,  was  probably  meant  as  a  palladium  to  the  re- 
siduary sovereignty  of  the  states,  implied  and  secured  by  that 
principle  of  representation  in  one  branch  of  the  legislature;  and 
was  probably  insisted  on  by  the  states  particularly  attached  to  that 
equality.  The  other  exception  must  have  been  admitted  on  the 
same  considerations  which  produced  the  privilege  defended  by  it. 

9.  "  The  ratification  of  the  conventions  of  nine  states,  shall  be 
"sufficient  for  the  establishment  of  this  constitution  between  the 
"  states  ratifying  the  same." 

This  article  speaks  for  itself.  The  express  authority  of  the 
people  alone  could  give  due  validity  to  the  constitution.  To  have 
required  the  unanimous  ratification  of  the  thirteen  states,  would 
have  subjected  the  essential  interests  of  the  whole,  to  the  caprice  or 
corruption  of  a  single  member.  It  would  have  marked  a  want  of 
foresight  in  the  convention,  which  our  own  experience  would  have 
rendered  inexcusable. 

Two  questions  of  a  very  delicate  nature  present  themselves  on 
this  occasion  :  1.  On  what  principle  the  confederation,  which 
stands  in  the  solemn  form  of  a  compact  among  the  states,  can  be 
superseded  without  the  unanimous  consent  of  the  parties  to  it : 
2.  What  relation  is  to  subsist  between  the  nine  or  more  states  rati- 
fying the  constitution,  and  the  remaining  few  who  do  not  become 
parties  to  it  1 

The  first  question  is  answered  at  once  by  recurring  to  the  abso- 
lute necessity  of  the  case  ;  to  the  great  principle  of  self-preserva- 
tion ;  to  the  transcendent  law  of  nature  and  of  nature's  God, 
which  declares  that  the  safety  and  happiness  of  society  are  the  ob- 
jects at  which  all  political  institutions  aim,  and  to  which  all  such 


222  THE  FEDERALIST. 

institutions  must  be  sacrificed.  Perhaps,  also,  an  answer  may  be 
found  without  searching  beyond  the  principles  of  the  compact  itself. 
It  has  been  heretofore  noted  among  the  defects  of  the  confedera- 
tion, that  in  many  of  the  states,  it  had  received  no  higher  sanction 
than  a  mere  legislative  ratification.  The  principle  of  reciprocality 
seems  to  require,  that  its  obligation  on  the  other  states  should  be 
reduced  to  the  same  standard.  A  compact  between  independent 
sovereigns,  founded  on  acts  of  legislative  authority,  can  pretend 
to  no  higher  validity  than  a  league  or  treaty  between  the  parties. 
It  is  an  established  doctrine  on  the  subject  of  treaties,  that  all  the 
articles  are  mutually  conditions  of  each  otiier  ;  that  a  breach  of 
any  one  article  is  a  breach  of  the  whole  treaty  ;  and  that  a  breach, 
committed  by  either  of  the  parties,  absolves  the  others,  and  au- 
thorizes them,  if  they  please,  to  pronounce  the  compact  violated 
and  void.  Should  it  unhappily  be  necessary  to  appeal  to  these 
delicate  truths,  for  a  justification  for  dispensing  with  the  consent 
of  particular  states  to  a  dissolution  of  the  federal  pact,  will  not 
the  complaining  parties  find  it  a  difficult  task  to  answer  the  multi- 
plied and  important  infractions,  with  which  they  may  be  confront- 
ed ?  The  time  has  been,  when  it  was  incumbent  on  us  all  to  veil 
the  ideas  which  this  paragraph  exhibits.  The  scene  is  now  chang- 
ed, and  with  it  the  part  which  the  same  motives  dictate. 

The  second  question  is  not  less  delicate  ;  and  the  flattering 
prospect  of  its  being  merely  hypothetical,  forbids  an  over  curious 
discussion  of  it.  It  is  one  of  those  cases  which  must  be  left  to 
provide  for  itself.  In  general,  it  may  be  observed,  that  although 
no  political  relation  can  subsist  between  the  assenting  and  dissent- 
ing states,  yet  the  moral  relations  will  remain  uncancelled.  The 
claims  of  justice,  both  on  one  side  and  on  the  other,  will  be  in 
force,  and  must  be  fulfilled  ;  the  rights  of  humanity  must  in  all 
cases  be  duly  and  mutually  respected  ;  whilst  considerations  of  a 
common  interest,  and  above  all,  the  remembrance  of  the  endear- 
ing scenes  which  are  past,  and  the  anticipation  of  a  speedy  tri- 
umph over  the  obstacles  to  reunion,  will,  it  is  hoped,  not  urge  in 
vain  moderation  on  one  side,  and  prudence  on  the  other. 

PUBLIUS. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  223 

NO.  XLIV. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 

The  same  View  Continued  and  Concluded. 

A  fifth  class  of  provisions  in  favour  of  the  federal  authority, 
consists  of  the  following  restrictions  on  the  authority  of  the  seve- 
ral states. 

1.  "  No  state  shall  enter  into  any  treaty,  alliance  or  confedera- 
"  tion  ;  grant  letters  of  marque  and  reprisal  ;  coin  money;  emit 
"  bills  of  credit;  make  any  thing  but  gold  and  silver  a  legal  ten- 
"  der  in  payment  of  debts  ;  pass  any  bill  of  attainder,  ez  post  facto 
•'  law,  or  law  impairing  the  obligation  of  contracts  ;  or  grant  any 
«  title  of  nobility." 

The  prohibition  against  treaties,  alliances,  and  confederations, 
makes  a  part  of  the  existing  articles  of  union  ;  and,  for  reasons 
which  need  no  explanation,  is  copied  into  the  new  constitution. 
The  prohibition  of  letters  of  marque,  is  another  part  of  the  old 
system,  but  is  somewhat  extended  in  the  new.  According  to  the 
former,  letters  of  marque  could  be  granted  by  the  states  after  a 
declaration  of  war  :  according  to  the  latter,  these  licenses  must 
be  obtained,  as  well  during  the  war,  as  previous  to  its  declaration, 
from  the  government  of  the  United  States.  This  alteration  is 
fully  justified,  by  the  advantage  of  uniformity  in  all  points  which 
relate  to  foreign  powers  ;  and  of  immediate  responsibility  to  the 
nation  in  all  those,  for  whose  conduct  the  nation  itself  is  to  be 
responsible. 

The  right  of  coining  money,  which  is  here  taken  from  the  states, 
was  left  in  their  hands  by  the  confederation,  as  a  concurrent  right 
with  that  of  congress,  under  an  exception  in  favour  of  the  exclu- 
sive right  of  congress  to  regulate  the  alloy  and  value.  In  this  in- 
stance, also,  the  new  provision  is  an  improvement  on  the  old. 
Whilst  the  alloy  and  value  depended  on  the  general  authority,  a 
right  of  coinage  in  the  particular  states  could  have  no  other  effect 
than  to  multiply  expensive  mints,  and  diversify  the  forms  and 
weights  of  the  circulating  pieces.  The  latter  inconveniency  de- 
feats one  purpose  for  which  the  power  was  originally  submitted  to 
the  federal  head  :  and  as  far  as  the  former  might  prevent  an  in- 
convenient remittance  of  gold  and  silver  to  the  central  mint  for 
recoinage,  the  end  can  be  as  well  attained  by  local  mints  estab- 
lished under  the  general  authority. 

The  extension  of  the  prohibition  to  bills  of  credit,  must  give 
pleasure  to  every  citizen,  in  proportion  to  his  love  of  justice,  and 
his  knowledge  of  the  true  springs  of  public  prosperity.     The  loss 


224  THE  FEDERALIST. 

which  America  has  sustained  since  the  peace,  from  the  pestilent 
effects  of  paper  money  on  the  necessary  confidence  between  man 
and  man  ;  on  the  necessary  confidence  in  the  public  councils  ;  on 
the  industry  and   morals  of  the  people,   and  on   the  character  of 
republican  government,  constitutes  an  enormous  debt  against  the 
states,  chargeable  with  this  unadvised   measure,  which   must  long 
remain  unsatisfied  ;  or  rather  an  accumulation  of  guilt,  which  can 
be  expiated  no  otherwise  than  by  a  voluntary  sacrifice  on  the  aUar 
of  justice,  of  the  power  which  has  been  the  instrument  of  it.     In 
addition  to  these  persuasive  considerations,  it  may  be  observed, 
that  the  same  reasons  which  show  the  necessity  of  denying  to  the 
states  the  power  of  regulating  coin  prove,   with   equal   force,  that 
they  ought  not  to  be  at  liberty  to  substitute  a  paper  medium,  in  the 
place   of  coin.     Had  every  state  a  right  to  regulate  the  value   of 
its  coin,  there  might  be  as  many  difi*erent  currencies  as  states ; 
and  thus,  the  intercourse  among  them   would  be   impeded:  retro- 
spective alterations  in  its  value  might  be  made,  and  thus  the   citi- 
zens of  other  states  be  injured  and  animosities  be  kindled   among 
the  states  themselves.     The  subjects  of  foreign  powers  might   suf- 
fer from  the  same  cause,  and  hence  the  union  be   discredited   and  ' 
embroiled  by  the   indiscretion   of  a  single   member.     No  one   of 
these  mischiefs  is  less  incident  to   a  power  in   the   states  to  emit 
paper  money,  than  to  coin  gold  or   silver.     The  power  to   make 
any  thing  but  gold  and  silver  a  tender  in  payment  of  debts,  is  with- 
drawn from   the   states,  on  the  same  principle  with  that  of  issuing 
a  paper  currency. 

Bills  of  attainder,  tz  post  facto  laws,  and  laws  impairing  the 
oblio-ation  of  contracts,  are  contrary  to  the  first  principles  of  the 
social  compact,  and  to  every  principle  of  sound  legislation.  The 
two  former  are  expressly  prohibited  by  the  declarations  prefixed 
to  some  of  the  state  constitutions,  and  all  of  them  are  prohibited 
by  the  spirit  and  scope  of  these  fundamental  charters.  Our  own 
experience  has  taught  us,  nevertheless,  that  additional  fences 
against  these  dangers  ought  not  to  be  omitted.  Very  properly, 
therefore,  have  the  convention  added  this  constitutional  bulwark 
in  favour  of  personal  security  and  private  rights  ;  and  I  am  much 
deceived,  if  they  have  not,  in  so  doing,  as  faithfully  consulted  the 
genuine  sentiments,  as  the  undoubted  interests  of  their  constitu- 
ents. The  sober  people  of  America  are  weary  of  the  fluctuating 
policy  which  has  directed  the  public  councils.  They  have  seen 
•with  ref^ret  and  with  indignation,  that  sudden  changes,  and  legis- 
lative interferences,  in  cases  affecting  personal  rights,  become  jobs 
in  the   hands   of   enterprising  and  influential  speculators;    and 


THE  FEDERALIST.  225 

snares  to  the  more  industrious  and  less  informed  part  of  the  com- 
munity. They  have  seen,  too,  that  one  legislative  interference  is 
but  the  first  link  of  a  long  chain  of  repetitions ;  every  subsequent 
interference  being  naturally  produced  by  the  eifects  of  the  pre- 
ceding. They  very  rightly  infer,  therefore,  that  some  thorough 
reform  is  wanting,  which  will  banish  speculations  on  public  meas- 
ures, inspire  a  general  prudence  and  industry,  and  give  a  regular 
course  to  the  business  of  society.  The  prohibition  with  respect 
to  titles  of  nobility,  is  copied  from  the  articles  of  confederation, 
and  needs  no  comment. 

2.  "  iVo  state  shall,  without  the  consent  of  the  congress  lay  any 
*♦  imposts  or  duties  on  imports  or  exports,  except  what  may  be  ab- 
*'  solutely  necessary  for  executing  its  inspection  laws,  and  the  neat 
*'  produce  of  all  duties  and  imposts  laid  by  any  state  on  imports 
*'  or  exports,  shall  be  for  the  use  of  the  treasury  of  the  United 
''States;  and  all  such  laws  shall  be  subject  to  the  revision  and 
*'  control  of  the  congress.  No  state  shall,  without  the  consent  of 
*'  congress,  lay  any  duty  on  tonnage,  keep  troops  or  ships  of  war 
*'  in  time  of  peace  ;  enter  into  any  agreement  or  compact  with 
*•  another  state,  or  with  a  foreign  power,  or  engage  in  war  unless 
*'  actually  invaded,  or  in  such  imminent  danger  as  will  not  admit 
*'  of  delay." 

The  restraint  on  the  power  of  the  states  over  imports  and  ex- 
ports, is  enforced  by  all  the  arguments  which  prove  the  necessity 
of  submitting  the  regulation  of  trade  to  the  federal  councils.  It 
is  needless,  therefore,  to  remark  further  on  this  head,  than  that 
the  manner  in  which  the  restraint  is  qualified,  seeras  well  calcu- 
lated at  once  to  secure  to  the  states  a  reasonable  discretion  in  pro- 
viding for  the  conveniency  of  their  imports  and  ejcports.  ond  to 
the  United  States  a  reasonable  check  against  the  abuse  of  this  dis- 
cretion. The  remaining  particulars  of  this  clause,  fall  within 
reasonings  which  are  either  so  obvious,  or  have  been  so  fully  de- 
veloped, that  they  may  be  passed  over  without  remark. 

The  sixth  and  last  class,  consists  of  the  several  powers  and  pro- 
visions, by  which  efficacy  is  given  to  all  the  rest. 

1.  "  Of  these  the  first  is,  the  power  to  make  all  laws  which  shall 
"  be  necessary  and  proper  for  carrying  into  execution  the  forego- 
"  ing  powers,  and  all  otiier  powers  vested  by  this  constitution  in 
"the  government  of  the  United  States,  or  in  any  department  or 
•'  officer  thereof." 

Few  parts  of  the  constitution  have  been  assailed  with  more  in- 
temperance than  this  ;  yet  on  a  fair  investigation  of  it,  as  has  been 
elsewhere  shown,  no  part  can  appear  more  completely  invulnera- 
27 


226  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ble.  "Without  the  substance  of  this  power,  the  whole  constitution 
would  be  a  dead  letter.  Those  who  object  to  the  article,  there- 
fore, as  a  i)ait  of  the  constitution,  can  only  mean  that  the  form  of 
the  provision  is  improper.  But  have  they  considered,  whether  a 
better  form  could  have  been  substituted  1 

There  are  four  other  possible  methods,  which  the  convention 
might  have  taken  on  this  subject.  They  might  have  copied  the 
second  article  of  the  existing  confederation,  which  would  have 
prohibited  the  exercise  of  any  power  not  expressly  delegated:  they 
might  have  attempted  a  positive  enumeration  of  the  powers  com- 
prehended under  the  general  terms  "  necessary  and  proper :" 
they  might  have  attempted  a  negative  enumeration  of  them,  by 
specifying  the  powers  excepted  from  the  general  definition  :  they 
might  have  been  altogether  silent  on  the  subject ;  leaving  these 
necessary  and  proper  powers,  to  construction  and  inference. 

Had  the  convention  taken  the  first  method  of  adopting  the  sec- 
ond article  of  confederation,  it  is  evident  that  the  new  congress 
would  be  continually  exposed,  as  their  predecessors  have  been,  to 
the  alternative  of  construing  the  term  "  expressly''''  with  so  much 
rigour,  as  to  disarm  the  government  of  all  real  authority  whatever, 
or  with  so  much  latitude  as  to  destroy  altogether  the  force  of  the 
restriction.  It  would  be  easy  to  show,  if  it  were  necessary,  that 
no  important  power,  delegated  by  the  articles  of  confederation, 
has  been  or  can  be  executed  by  congress  without  recurring  more 
or  less  to  the  doctrine  of  construction  or  implication.  As  the  pow- 
ers delegated  under  the  new  system  are  more  extensive,  the  gov- 
ernment which  is  to  administer  it  would  find  itself  still  more  dis- 
tressed with  the  alternative  of  betraying  the  public  interest  by  do- 
ing nothing;  or  of  violating  the  constitution  by  exercising  powers 
indispensably  necessary  and  proper  ;  but,  at  the  same  time,  not 
expressly  granted. 

Had  the  convention  attempted  a  positive  enumeration  of  the 
powers  necessary  and  proper  for  carrying  their  other  powers  into 
effect ;  the  attempt  would  have  involved  a  complete  digest  of  laws 
on  every  subject  to  which  the  constitution  relates  ;  accommodated 
too  not  only  to  the  existing  state  of  things,  but  to  all  the  possible 
changes  which  futurity  may  produce  :  for  in  every  new  application 
of  a  general  power,  \\\e  particular  poivcrs,  which  are  the  means  of 
attaining  the  object  of  the  general  power,  must  always  necessarily 
vary  with  that  object  ;  and  be  often  pr()j)erly  varied  whilst  the  ob- 
ject remains  the  same. 

Had  they  attempted  to  enumerate  the  particular  powers  or 
means  not  necessary  or  proper  for  carrying  the  general  powers 


THE  FEDERALIST.  227 

into  execution,  the  task  would  have  been  no  less  chimerical;  and 
would  have  been  liable  to  tliis  further  objection  ;  that  every  defect 
in  the  enumeration,  would  have  been  equivalent  to  a  positive  grant 
of  authority.  If,  to  avoid  this  consequence,  they  had  attempted 
a  partial  enumeration  of  the  exceptions,  and  described  the  residue 
by  the  general  terms,  not  necessary  or  proper ;  it  must  have  hap- 
pened that  the  enumeration  would  comprehend  a  few  of  the  ex- 
cepted powers  only ;  that  these  would  be  such  as  would  be  least 
likely  to  be  assumed  or  tolerated,  because  the  enumeration  would 
of  course  select  such  as  would  be  least  necessary  or  proper,  and 
that  the  unnecessary  and  improper  powers  included  in  the  residu- 
um, would  be  less  forcibly  excepted,  than  if  no  partial  enumera- 
tion had  been  made. 

Had  the  constitution  been  silent  on  this  head,  there  can  be  no 
doubt  that  all  the  particular  powers  requisite  as  means  of  execut- 
ing the  general  powers  would  have  resulted  to  the  government,  by 
unavoidable  implication.  No  axiom  is  more  clearly  established  in 
law,  or  in  reason,  than  that  wherever  the  end  is  required,  the  means 
are  authorized  ;  wherever  a  general  power  to  do  a  thing  is  given, 
every  particular  power  necessary  for  doing  it  is  included.  Had 
this  last  method,  therefore,  been  pursued  by  the  convention,  every 
objection  now  urged  against  their  plan,  would  remain  in  all  its 
plausibility  ;  and  the  real  inconveniency  would  be  incurred  of  not 
removing  a  pretext  which  may  be  seized  on  critical  occasions,  for 
drawing  into  question  the  essential  powers  of  the  union. 

If  it  be  asked,  what  is  to  be  the  consequence,  in  case  the  con- 
gress shall  misconstrue  this  part  of  the  constitution,  and  exercise 
powers  not  warranted  by  its  true  meaning ;  I  answer  the  same  as 
if  they  should  misconstrue  or  enlarge  any  other  power  vested  in 
them;  as  if  the  general  power  had  been  reduced  to  particulars, 
and  any  one  of  these  were  to  be  violated ;  the  same  in  short,  as 
if  the  state  legislatures  should  violate  their  respective  constitution- 
al authorities.  In  the  first  instance,  the  success  of  the  usurpation 
will  depend  on  the  executive  and  judiciary  departments,  which  are 
to  expound  and  give  effect  to  the  legislative  acts  ;  and  in  the  last 
resort,  a  remedy  must  be  obtained  from  the  people,  who  can,  by 
the  election  of  more  faithful  representatives,  annul  the  acts  of 
the  usurpers.  The  truth  is,  that  this  ultimate  redress  may  be  more 
confided  in  against  unconstitutional  acts  of  the  federal,  than  of 
the  state  legislatures,  for  this  plain  reason,  that  as  every  such  act 
of  the  former,  will  be  an  invasion  of  the  rights  of  the  latter,  these 
will  be  ever  ready  to  mark  the  innovation,  to  sound  the  alarm  to 
the  people,  and  to  exert  their  local  influence  in  effecting  a  chang9 


228  THE  FEDERALIST. 

of  federal  representatives.  There  being  no  such  intermediate 
body  between  the  state  legislatures  and  the  people,  interested  in 
watching  the  conduct  of  the  former,  violations  of  the  state  con- 
stitutions are  more  likely  to  remain  unnoticed  and  unredressed, 

2.  "  This  constitution,  and.  the  laws  of  the  United  States  which 
••  shall  be  made  in  pursuance  thereof,  and  all  treaties  made,  or 
"  which  shall  be  made,  under  the  authority  of  the  United  States, 
♦'  shall  be  the  supreme  law  of  the  land,  and  the  judges  in  every 
"  state  shall  be  bound  thereby,  any  thing  in  the  constitution  or  laws 
•'  of  any  state  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding." 

The  indiscreet  zeal  of  the  adversaries  to  the  constitution,  has 
betrayed  them  into  an  attack  on  this  part  of  it  also,  without  which 
it  would  have  been  evidently  and  radically  defective.  To  be  fully 
sensible  of  this,  we  need  only  suppose  for  a  moment,  that  the  su- 
premacy of  the  state  constitutions  had  been  left  complete,  by  a 
saving  clause  in  their  favour. 

In  the  first  place,  as  these  constitutions  invest  the  state  legisla- 
tures with  absolute  sovereignty,  in  all  cases  not  excepted  by  the 
existing  articles  of  confederation,  all  the  autliorities  contained  in 
the  proposed  constitution,  so  far  as  they  exceed  those  enumerated 
in  the  confederation,  would  have  been  annulled,  and  the  new  con- 
gress would  have  been  reduced  to  the  same  impotent  condition 
with  their  predecessors. 

In  the  next  place,  as  the  constitutions  of  some  of  the  states  do 
not  even  expressly  and  fully  recognise  the  existing  powers  of  the 
confederacy,  an  express  saving  of  the  supremacy  of  the  former 
would,  in  such  states,  have  brought  into  question  every  power  con- 
tained in  the  proposed  constitution. 

In  the  third  place,  as  the  constitutions  of  the  states  differ  much 
from  each  other,  it  might  happen  that  a  treaty  or  national  law  of 
great  and  equal  importance  to  the  states,  would  interfere  with 
some,  and  not  with  other  constitutions,  and  would  consequently  be 
valid  in  some  of  the  states,  at  the  same  time  that  it  would  have  no 
effect  in  others. 

In  fine,  the  world  would  have  seen  for  the  first  time,  a  system 
of  government  founded  on  an  inversion  of  the  fundamental  prin- 
ciples of  all  government ;  it  would  have  seen  the  authority  of  the 
whole  society  everywhere  subordinate  to  the  authority  of  the  parts  ; 
it  would  have  seen  a  monster,  in  which  the  head  was  under  the  di- 
rection of  the  members. 

3.  "  The  senators  and  representatives,  and  the  members  of  the 
"  several  state  legislatures  ;  and  all  executive  and  judicial  officers, 
"both  of  the  United  States  and  the  several  states,  shall  be  bound 
♦*  by  oath  or  affirmation,  to  support  this  constitution." 


THE  FEDERALIST.  229 

It  has  been  asked,  why  it  was  thought  necessary,  that  the  state 
magistracy  should  be  bound  to  support  the  federal  constitution, 
and  unnecessary  that  a  like  oath  should  be  imposed  on  the  officers 
of  the  United  States,  in  favour  of  the  state  constitutions  ? 

Several  reasons  might  be  assigned  for  the  distinctions.  I  con- 
tent myself  with  one,  which  is  obvious  and  conclusive.  The  mem- 
bers of  the  federal  government  will  have  no  agency  in  carrying 
the  state  constitutions  into  effect.  The  members  and  officers  of 
the  state  governments,  on  the  contrary,  will  have  an  essential  agen- 
cy in  giving  effect  to  the  federal  constitution.  The  election  of  the 
president  and  senate  will  depend,  in  all  cases,  on  the  legislatures 
of  the  several  states.  And  the  election  of  the  house  of  represen- 
tatives will  equally  depend  on  the  same  authority  in  the  first  in- 
stance ;  and  will,  probably,  for  ever  be  conducted  by  the  officers, 
and  according  to  the  laws  of  the  states. 

4.  Among  the  provisions  for  giving  efficacy  to  the  federal  pow- 
ers, might  be  added  those  which  belong  to  the  executive  and  judi- 
ciary departments  :  but  as  these  are  reserved  for  particular  exam- 
ination in  another  place,  I  pass  them  over  in  this. 

We  have  now  reviewed,  in  detail,  all  the  articles  composing  the 
sum  or  quantity  of  power,  delegated  by  the  proposed  constitution 
to  the  federal  government ;  and  are  brought  to  this  undeniable 
conclusion,  that  no  part  of  the  power  is  unnecessary  or  improper, 
for  accomplishing  the  necessary  objects  of  the  union.  The  ques- 
tion therefore,  whether  this  amount  of  power  shall  be  granted  or 
not,  resolves  itself  into  another  question,  whether  or  not  a  govern- 
ment commensurate  to  the  exigencies  of  the  union,  shall  be  estab- 
lished ;  or,  in  other  words,  whether  the  union  itself  shall  be  pre- 
served. PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XLV. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 


A  further  Discussion  of  the  Supposed  Danger  from  the  Powers  of 
the  Union.,  to  the  State  Governments. 

Having  shown,  that  no  one  of  the  powers  transferred  to  the 
federal  government  is  unnecessary  or  improper,  the  next  question 
to  be  considered  is,  whether  the  whole  mass  of  them  will  be  dan- 
gerous to  the  portion  of  authority  left  in  the  several  states. 

The  adversaries  to  the  plan  of  the  convention,  instead  of  con- 
sidering in  the  first  place,  what  degree  of   power  was  absolutely 


230  THE  FEDERALIST. 

necessary  for  the  purposes  of  the  federal  government,  have  ex- 
hausted themselves  in  a  secondary  inquiry  into  the  possible  conse- 
quences of  the  proposed  degree  of  power  to  the  governments  of 
the  particular  states.  But  if  the  union,  as  has  been  shown,  be  es- 
sential to  the  security  of  the  people  of  America  against  foreign 
danger  ;  if  it  be  essential  to  their  security  against  contentions  and 
wars  among  the  different  states  ;  if  it  be  essential  to  guard  theni 
against  those  violent  and  oppressive  factions,  which  imbitter  the 
blessings  of  liberty,  and  against  those  military  establishments 
which  must  gradually  poison  its  very  fountain  ;  if,  in  a  word,  the 
union  be  essential  to  the  happiness  of  the  people  of  America,  is 
it  not  preposterous,  to  urge  as  an  objection  to  a  government,  with- 
out vvhicli  the  objects  of  the  union  cannot  be  attained,  that  such  a 
government  may  derogate  from  the  importance  of  the  govern- 
ments of  the  individual  states  1  Was  then  the  American  revolu- 
tion effected,  was  the  American  confederacy  formed,  was  the  pre- 
cious blood  of  thousands  spilt,  and  the  hard-earned  substance  of 
millions  lavished,  not  that  the  people  of  America  should  enjoy 
peace,  liberty,  and  safety  ;  but  that  the  governments  of  the  indi- 
vidual states,  that  particular  municipal  establishments,  might  enjoy 
a  certain  extent  of  power,  and  be  arrayed  with  certain  dignities 
and  attributes  of  sovereignty  1  We  have  heard  of  the  impious 
doctrine  in  the  old  world,  that  the  people  were  made  for  kings, 
not  kings  for  the  people.  Is  the  same  doctrine  to  be  revived  in 
the  new,  in  another  shape,  that  the  solid  happiness  of  the  people 
is  to  be  sacrificed  to  the  views  of  political  institutions  of  a  differ- 
ent form  1  It  is  too  early  for  politicians  to  presume  on  our  for- 
getting that  the  public  good,  the  real  welfare  of  the  great  body  of 
the  people,' is  the  supreme  object  to  be  pursued  ;  and  that  no  form 
of  government  whatever  has  any  other  value,  than  as  it  may  be 
fitted  for  the  attainment  of  this  object.  Were  the  plan  of  the  con- 
vention adverse  to  the  public  happiness,  my  voice  would  be.  Reject 
the  plan.  Were  the  union  itself  inconsistent  with  the  public  hap- 
piness, it  would  be,  Abolish  the  union.  In  like  manner,  as  far  as 
the  sovereignty  of  the  states  cannot  be  reconciled  to  the  happi- 
ness of  the  people,  the  voice  of  every  good  citizen  must  be,  Let 
the  former  be  sacrificed  to  the  latter.  How  far  the  sacrifice  is 
necessary,  has  been  shown.  How  far  the  unsacrificed  residue  will 
be  endangered,  is  the  question  befi)re  us. 

Several  important  considerations  have  been  touched  in  the  course 
of  these  papers,  which  discountenance  the  supposition,  that  the 
operation  of  the  federal  government  will  by  degrees  prove  fatal  to 
the  state  governments.     The  more  I  revolve  the  subject,  the  more 


THE  FEDERALIST.  231 

fully  I  am  persuaded,  that  the  balance  is  much  more  likely  to  be 
disturbed  by  the  prepoiiderancy  of  the  last  than  of  the  first  scale. 

We  have  seen,  in  all  the  examples  of  ancient  and  modern  con- 
federacies, the  strongest  tendency  continually  betraying  itself  in 
the  members,  to  despoil  the  general  government  of  its  authorities, 
with  a  very  ineffectual  capacity  in  the  latter  to  defend  itself 
against  the  encroachments.  Although  in  most  of  these  examples, 
the  system  has  been  so  dissimilar  from  that  under  consideration, 
as  greatly  to  weaken  any  inference  concerning  the  latter,  from  the 
fate  of  the  former  ;  yet  as  the  states  will  retain,  under  the  propos- 
ed constitution,  a  very  extensive  portion  of  active  sovereignty,  the 
inference  ought  not  to  be  wholly  disregarded.  In  the  Achaean 
league,  it  is  probable  that  the  federal  head  had  a  degree  and  spe- 
cies of  power,  which  gave  it  a  considerable  likeness  to  the  govern- 
ment framed  by  the  convention.  The  Lycian  confederacy,  as  far 
as  its  principles  and  form  are  transmitted,  must  have  borne  a  still 
greater  analogy  to  it.  Yet  history  does  not  inform  us,  that  either 
of  them  ever  degenerated,  or  tended  to  degenerate,  into  one  con- 
solidated government.  On  the  contrary,  we  know  that  the  ruin  of 
one  of  them  proceeded  from  the  incapacity  of  the  federal  author- 
ity to  prevent  the  dissensions,  and  finally  the  disunion  of  the  sub- 
ordinate authorities.  These  cases  are  the  more  worthy  of  our  at- 
tention, as  the  external  causes  by  whicli  the  component  parts  were 
pressed  together,  were  much  more  numerous  and  powerful  than  in 
our  case ;  and  consequently,  less  powerful  ligaments  within  would 
be  sufficient  to  bind  the  members  to  the  head,  and  to  each   other. 

In  the  feudal  system,  we  have  seen  a  similar  propensity  exem- 
plified. Notwithstanding  the  want  of  proper  sympathy  in  every 
instance  between  the  local  sovereigns  and  the  people,  and  the  sym- 
pathy in  some  instances  between  the  general  sovereign  and  the 
latter  ;  it  usually  happened  that  the  local  sovereigns  prevailed  in 
the  rivalship  for  encroachments.  Had  no  external  dangers  en- 
forced internal  harmony  and  subordination;  and  particularly,  had 
the  local  sovereigns  possessed  the  affections  of  the  people,  the 
great  kingdoms  in  Europe  would  at  this  time  consist  of  as  many 
independent  princes,  as  there  were  formerly  feudatory  barons. 

The  state  governments  will  have  the  advantage  of  the  federal 
government,  whether  we  compare  them  in  respect  to  the  imme- 
diate dependence  of  the  one  on  the  other ;  to  the  weight  of 
personal  inffuence  which  each  side  will  possess;  to  the  powers 
respectively  vested  in  them  ;  to  the  predilection  and  probable  sup- 
port of  the  people  ;  to  the  disposition  and  faculty  of  resisting  and 
frustrating  the  measures  of  each  other. 


232  THE  FEDERALIST. 

The  state  governments  may  be  regarded  as  constitnent  and  es- 
sential parts  of  the  federal  government ;  whilst  the  latter  is  no- 
wise essential  to  the  operation  or  organization  of  the  former. 
Without  the  intervention  of  the  state  legislatures,  the  president  of 
the  United  States  cannot  be  elected  at  all.  They  must  in  all 
cases  have  a  great  share  in  his  appointment,  and  will,  perhaps,  in 
most  cases,  of  themselves  determine  it.  The  senate  will  be  elected 
absolutely  and  exclusively  by  the  state  legislatures.  Even  the 
house  of  representatives,  though  drawn  immediately  from  the  peo- 
ple, will  be  chosen  very  much  under  the  influence  of  that  class  of 
men,  whose  influence  over  the  people  obtains  for  themselves  an 
election  into  the  state  legislatures.  Thus,  each  of  the  principal 
branches  of  the  federal  government  will  owe  its  existence  more  or 
less  to  the  favour  of  the  state  governments,  and  must  consequently 
feel  a  dependence,  which  is  much  more  likely  to  beget  a  disposi- 
tion too  obsequious,  than  too  overbearing  towards  them.  On  the 
other  side  the  component  parts  of  the  state  governments  will  in  no 
instance  be  indebted  for  their  appointment  to  the  direct  agency  of 
the  federal  government,  and  very  little,  if  at  all,  to  the  local  influ- 
ence of  its  members. 

The  number  of  individuals  employed  under  the  constitution  of 
the  United  States,  will  be  much  smaller  than  the  number  employed 
under  the  particular  states.  There  will  consequently  be  less  of 
personal  influence  on  the  side  of  the  former  than  of  the  latter. 
The  members  of  the  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  depart- 
ments of  thirteen  and  more  states  ;  the  justices  of  peace,  ofiicers 
of  militia,  ministerial  ofiicers  of  justice,  with  all  the  county,  cor- 
poration, and  town  ofiicers,  for  three  millions  and  more  of  people, 
intermixed,  and  having  particular  acquaintance  with  every  class 
and  circle  of  people,  must  exceed  beyond  all  proportion,  both  in 
number  and  influence,  those  of  every  description  who  will  be  em- 
ployed in  the  administration  of  the  federal  system.  Compare  the 
members  of  the  three  great  departments,  of  the  thirteen  states, 
excluding  from  the  judiciary  department  the  justices  of  peace, 
with  the  members  of  the  corresponding  departments  of  the  single 
government  of  the  union  ;  compare  the  militia  ofiicers  of  three 
millions  of  people,  with  the  military  and  marine  officers  of  any 
establishment  which  is  within  the  compass  of  probability,  or,  I 
may  add,  of  possibility  ;  and  in  this  view  alone,  we  may  pronounce 
the  advantage  of  the  states  to  be  decisive.  If  the  federal  govern- 
ment is  to  have  collectors  of  revenue,  the  slate  governments  will 
have  theirs  also.  And  as  those  of  the  former  will  be  principally 
on  the  seacoast,  and  not  very  numerous,  whilst  those  of  the  latter 


THE  FEDERALIST.  233 

will  be  spread  over  the  face  of  the  country,  and  will  be  very  nu- 
merous, the  advantage  in  this  view  also  lies  on  the  same  side.  It 
is  true  that  the  confederacy  is  to  possess,  and  may  exercise  the 
power  of  collecting  internal  as  well  as  external  taxes  throughout 
the  states  :  but  it  is  probable  that  this  power  will  not  be  resorted 
to,  except  for  supplemental  purposes  of  revenue  ;  that  an  option 
will  then  be  given  to  the  states  to  supply  their  quotas  by  previous 
collections  of  their  own  ;  and  that  the  eventual  collection,  under 
the  immediate  authority  of  the  union,  will  generally  be  made  by 
the  officers,  and  according  to  the  rules  appointed  by  the  several 
states.  Indeed,  it  is  extremely  probable,  that  in  other  instances, 
particularly  in  the  organization  of  the  judicial  power,  the  officers 
of  the  states  will  be  clothed  with  the  correspondent  authority  of 
the  union.  Should  it  happen,  however,  that  separate  collectors  of 
internal  revenue  should  be  appointed  under  the  federal  govern- 
ment, the  influence  of  the  whole  number  would  not  bear  a  com- 
parison with  that  of  the  multitude  of  state  officers  in  the  opposite 
scale.  Within  every  district,  to  which  a  federal  collector  would 
be  allotted,  there  would  not  be  less  tlian  thirty  or  forty,  or  even 
more  officers,  of  different  descriptions,  and  many  of  them  persons 
of  character  and  weight,  whose  influence  would  lie  on  the  side  of 
the  state. 

The  powers  delegated  by  the  proposed  constitution  to  the  feder- 
al government,  are  few  and  defined.  Those  which  are  to  remain 
in  the  state  governments,  are  numerous  and  indefinite.  The  for- 
mer will  be  exercised  principally  on  external  objects,  as  war,  peace, 
negotiation,  and  foreign  commerce  ;  with  which  last  the  power  of 
taxation  will,  for  the  most  part,  be  connected.  The  powers  re- 
served to  the  several  states  will  extend  to  all  the  objects,  which,  in 
the  ordinary  course  of  affairs,  concern  the  lives,  liberties,  and  prop- 
erties of  the  people  ;  and  the  internal  order,  improvement,  and 
prosperity  of  the  state. 

The  operations  of  the  federal  government  will  be  most  exten- 
sive and  important  in  times  of  war  and  danger  ;  those  of  the  state 
governments  in  times  of  peace  and  security.  As  the  former  pe- 
riods will  probably  bear  a  small  proportion  to  the  latter,  the  state 
governments  will  here  enjoy  another  advantage  over  the  federal 
government.  The  more  adequate  indeed  the  federal  powers  may 
be  rendered  to  the  national  defence,  the  less  frequent  will  be  those 
scenes  of  danger  which  might  favour  their  ascendancy  over  the 
governments  of  the  particular  states. 

If  the  new  constitution  be  examined  with  accuracy  and  candour, 
it  will  be  found  that  the  change  which  it  proposes,  consists  much 
28 


234  THE  FEDERALIST. 

less  in  the  addition  of  new  poavers  to  the  union,  than  in  the  invig- 
oration  of  its  original  powers.  The  regulation  of  commerce,  it 
is  true,  is  a  new  power  ;  but  that  seems  to  be  an  addition  which 
few  oppose,  and  from  which  no  apprehensions  are  entertained. 
The  powers  relating  to  war  and  peace,  armies  and  fleets,  treaties 
and  finance,  with  the  other  more  considerable  powers,  are  all  vest- 
ed in  the  existing  congress  by  the  articles  of  confederation.  The 
proposed  change  does  not  enlarge  these  powers ;  it  only  substi- 
tutes a  more  effectual  mode  of  administering  them.  The  change 
relating  to  taxation,  may  be  regarded  as  the  most  important :  and 
yet  the  present  congress  have  as  complete  authority  to  require  of 
the  states  indefinite  supplies  of  money  for  the  common  defence 
and  general  welfare,  as  the  future  congress  will  have  to  require 
them  of  individual  citizens  ;  and  the  latter  will  be  no  more  bound 
than  the  states  themselves  have  been,  to  pay  the  quotas  respective- 
ly taxed  on  them.  Had  the  states  complied  punctually  with  the 
articles  of  confederation,  or  could  their  compliance  have  been  en- 
forced by  as  peaceable  means  as  may  be  used  with  success  towards 
single  persons,  our  past  experience  is  very  far  from  countenancing 
an  opinion,  that  the  state  governments  would  have  lost  their  con- 
stitutional powers,  and  have  gradually  undergone  an  entire  consol- 
idation. To  maintain  that  such  an  event  would  have  ensued, 
would  be  to  say  at  once,  that  the  existence  of  the  state  govern- 
ments is  incompatible  with  any  system  whatever,  that  accomplish- 
es the  essential  purposes  of  the  union.  PUBLHJS. 


NO.  XLVI. 

By  JAMES  MADISON. 

The  Subject  of  the  last  Paper  Resumed;  with  an  Examination  of 
the  Comparative  means  of  Influence  of  the  Federal  and  State  Gov- 
ernments. 

Resuming  the  subject  of  the  last  paper,  I  proceed  to  inquire, 
whether  the  federal  government  or  the  state  governments,  will 
have  the  advantage  with  regard  to  the  predilection  and  support  of 
the  people. 

Notwithstanding  the  different  modes  in  which  they  are  appoint- 
ed, we  must  consider  both  of  them  as  substantially  dependent  on 
the  great  body  of  the  citizens  of  the  United  States.  I  assume  this 
position  here  as  it  respects  the  first,  reserving  the  proofs  for  another 
place.  The  federal  and  state  governments  are  in  fact  but  different 
agents  and  trustees  of  the  people,  instituted  with  different  powers, 


THE  FEDERALIST.  235 

and  designated  for  different  purposes.  The  adversaries  of  the 
constitution  seem  to  have  lost  sight  of  the  people  altogether,  in 
their  reasonings  on  this  suhject ;  and  to  have  viewed  these  dif- 
ferent establishments,  not  only  as  mutual  rivals  and  enemies,  but  as 
uncontrolled  by  any  common  superiour,  in  their  efforts  to  usurp  the 
authorities  of  each  other.  These  gentlemen  must  here  be  remind- 
ed of  their  errour.  They  must  be  told,  that  the  ultimate  authority, 
wherever  the  derivative  may  be  found,  resides  in  the  people  alone ; 
and  that  it  will  not  depend  merely  on  the  comparative  ambition  or 
address  of  the  different  governments,  whether  either,  or  which  of 
them,  will  be  able  to  enlarge  its  sphere  of  jurisdiction  at  the  ex- 
pense of  the  other.  Truth,  no  less  than  decency,  requires,  that 
the  event,  in  every  case,  should  be  supposed  to  depend  on  the  sen- 
timents and  sanction  of  their  common  constituents. 

Many  considerations,  besides  those  suggested  on  a  former  oc- 
casion, seem  to  place  it  beyond  doubt,  that  the  first  and  most  nat- 
ural attachment  of  the  people  will  be  to  the  governments  of  their 
respective  states.  Into  the  administration  of  these,  a  greater  num- 
ber of  individuals  will  expect  to  rise.  From  the  gift  of  these,  a 
greater  number  of  offices  and  emoluments  will  flow.  By  the  su- 
perintending care  of  these,  all  the  more  domestic  and  personal 
interests  of  the  people  will  be  regulated  and  provided  for.  With 
the  affairs  of  these,  the  people  will  be  more  familiarly  and  minute- 
ly conversant :  and  witli  the  members  of  these,  will  a  greater 
proportion  of  the  people  have  the  ties  of  personal  acquaintance 
and  friendship,  and  of  family  and  party  attachments.  On  the  side 
of  these,  therefore,  the  popular  bias  may  well  be  expected  most 
strongly  to  incline. 

Expeiience  speaks  the  same  language  in  this  case.  The  fed- 
eral administration,  though  hitherto  very  defective,  in  comparison 
with  what  may  be  hoped  under  a  better  system,  had,  during  the 
war,  and  particularly  whilst  the  independent  fund  of  paper  emis- 
sions was  in  credit,  an  activity  and  importance  as  great  as  it  can 
well  have,  in  any  future  circumstances  whatever.  It  was  engaged, 
too,  in  a  course  of  measures  which  had  for  their  object  the  pro- 
tection of  every  thing  that  was  dear,  and  the  acquisition  of  every 
thing  that  could  be  desirable  to  the  people  at  large.  It  was,  never- 
theless, invariably  found,  after  the  transient  enthusiasm  for  the 
early  congresses  was  over,  that  the  attention  and  attachment  of  the 
people  were  turned  anew  to  their  own  particular  governments  ; 
that  the  federal  council  was  at  no  time  the  idol  of  popular  favour ; 
and  that  opposition  to  proposed  enlargements  of  its  powers  and 
importance,  was  the  side  usually  taken  by  the  men,  who  wished  to 


236  THE  FEDERALIST. 

build  their  political  consequence  on  the  prepossessions  of  their  fel- 
low-citizens. 

Jf,  tlierefore,  as  has  heen  elsewhere  remarked,  the  people  should 
in  future  become  more  partial  to  the  federal  than  to  the  state  gov- 
ernments, the  change  can  only  result  from  such  manifest  and 
irresistible  proofs  of  a  better  administration,  as  will  overcome  all 
their  antecedent  propensities.  And  in  that  case,  the  people  ought 
not  surely  to  be  precluded  from  giving  most  of  their  confidence 
where  they  may  discover  it  to  be  most  due  :  but  even  in  that  case,  the 
state  governments  could  have  little  to  apprehend,  because  it  is  only 
within  a  certain  sphere,  that  the  federal  power  can,  in  the  nature 
of  things,  be  advantageously  administered. 

The  remaining  p(»ints,  on  which  I  propose  to  compare  the  fed- 
eral and  state  governments,  are  the  disposition  and  faculty  they 
may  respectively  possess,  to  resist  and  frustrate  the  measures  of 
each  other. 

It  has  been  already  proved,  that  the  members  of  the  federal  will 
be  mure  dependent  on  the  members  of  the  state  governments,  than 
the  latier  will  be  on  the  former.  It  has  appeared  also,  that  the 
prepossessions  of  the  people,  on  whom  both  will  depend,  will  be 
more  on  the  side  of  the  state  governments,  than  of  the  federal 
government.  So  far  as  the  disposition  of  each,  towards  the  other, 
may  be  influenced  by  tliese  causes,  the  state  governments  must 
clearly  have  the  advantage.  But  in  a  distinct  and  very  important 
point  of  view,  the  advantage  will  lie  on  the  same  side.  The  pre- 
possessions, which  the  members  themselves  will  carry  into  the  fed- 
eral government,  w ill  generally  be  favourable  to  the  states  ;  whilst 
it  will  rarely  happen,  that  the  members  of  the  state  governments 
wil!  carry  ii.to  the  public  councils  a  bias  in  favour  of  the  general 
government.  A  local  spirit  will  infallibly  prevail  much  more  in 
the  members  of  the  congress,  than  a  national  spirit  will  prevail  in 
the  legislatures  of  the  particular  states.  Every  one  knows,  that  a 
great  proportion  of  the  errours  committed  by  the  state  legislatures, 
proceeds  from  the  disposition  of  the  members  to  sacrifice  the  com- 
prehensive and  permanent  interests  of  the  state,  to  the  particular 
and  separate  views  of  the  counties  or  districts  in  which  they  reside. 
And  if  they  do  not  sufiiciently  enlarge  their  policy,  to  embrace  the 
collective  welfare  of  their  particular  state,  how  can  it  be  imagin- 
ed, that  they  will  make  the  aggregate  prosperity  of  the  union,  and 
the  dignity  and  respectability  of  its  government,  the  objects  of 
their  aftections  and  consultations  1  For  the  same  reason,  that  the 
members  of  the  state  legislatures  will  be  unlikely  to  attach  them- 
selves sufiiciently  to  national  objects,  the  members  of  the  federal 


THE  FEDERALIST.  237 

legislature  will  be  likely  to  attach  tliemselves  too  much  to  local  ob- 
jects. The  states  will  be  to  the  latter,  what  counties  and  towns  are 
to  the  former.  Measures  will  too  often  be  decided  according  to 
their  probable  eftect,  not  on  the  national  prosperity  and  happiness, 
but  on  the  prejudices,  interests,  and  pursuits  of  the  governments 
and  people  of  the  individual  states.  What  is  the  spirit  that  has  in 
general  characterized  the  proceedings  of  congress  1  A  perusal 
of  their  journals,  as  well  as  the  candid  acknowledgements  of  such 
as  have  had  a  seat  in  that  assembly,  will  inform  us,  that  the  mem- 
bers have  but  too  frequently  displayed  the  character,  rather  of  par- 
tisans of  their  respective  slates,  than  of  impartial  guardians  of  a 
common  interest ;  that  where,  on  one  occasion,  improper  sacrifices 
have  been  made  of  local  considerations  to  the  aggrandizement  of 
the  federal  government,  the  great  interests  of  the  nation  have  suf- 
fered on  an  hundred,  from  an  undue  attention  to  the  local  preju- 
dices, interests,  and  views  of  the  particular  states.  I  mean  not  by 
these  reflections  to  insinuate,  that  the  new  federal  government  will 
not  embrace  a  more  enlarged  plan  of  policy,  than  the  existing  gov- 
ernment may  have  pursued  ;  much  less,  that  its  views  will  be  as 
confined  as  those  of  the  state  legislatures:  but  only  that  it  will 
partake  sufficiently  of  the  spirit  of  Uoth,  to  be  disinclined  to  in- 
vade the  rights  of  the  individual  states,  or  the  prerogatives  of  their 
governments.  The  motives  on  the  part  of  the  state  governments, 
to  auo-ment  their  prerogatives  by  del'alcations  from  the  federal  gov- 
ernments, will  be  overruled  by  no  reciprocal  predispositions  in  the 
members. 

Were  it  admitted,  however,  that  the  federal  government  may 
feel  an  equal  disposition  with  the  state  governments  to  extend  its 
power  beyond  the  due  limits,  the  latter  w^ould  still  have  the  ad- 
vantage in  the  means  of  defeating  such  encroachments.  If  an 
act  of  a  particular  state,  though  unfriendly  to  the  national  govern- 
ment, be  generally  popular  in  that  state,  and  should  not  too  gross- 
ly violate  the  oaths  of  the  state  officers,  it  is  executed  immediately, 
and,  of  course,  by  means  on  the  spot,  and  depending  on  the  state 
alone.  The  opposition  of  the  federal  government,  or  the  interpo- 
sition of  federal  officers,  would  but  inflame  the  zeal  of  all  parties 
on  the  side  of  the  state  ;  and  the  evil  could  not  be  prevented  or 
repaired,  if  at  all,  without  the  employment  of  means  which  must 
always  be  resorted  to  with  reluctance  and  difficulty.  On  the  other 
hand,  should  an  unwarrantable  measure  of  the  federal  government 
be  unpopular  iu  particular  states,  which  would  seldom  fail  to'  be 
the  case,  or  even  a  warrantable  measure  be  so,  which  may  some- 
times be  the  case,  the  means  of  opposition  to  it  are  povver'^ul  and 


338  THE  FEDERALIST. 

at  hand.  The  disquietude  of  the  people ;  their  repugnance,  and 
perhaps  refusal,  to  cooperate  witii  the  officers  of  the  union  ;  the 
frowns  of  the  executive  ma;^;istracy  of  the  state;  the  embarrass- 
ments created  by  legislative  devices,  which  would  often  be  added 
on  such  occasions,  would  oppose,  in  any  state,  difficulties  not  to 
be  despised  ;  would  form,  in  a  large  state,  very  serious  impedi- 
ments ;  and  where  the  sentiments  of  several  adjoining  states  hap- 
pened to  be  in  unison,  would  present  obstructions  which  the  fed- 
eral government  would  hardly  be  willing  to  encounter. 

But  ambitious  encroachments  of  the  federal  government,  on  the 
authority  of  the  state  governments,  would  not  excite  the  opposi- 
tion of  a  single  state,  or  of  a  few  states  only.  They  would  be 
sit'nals  of  general  alarm.  Every  government  would  espouse  the 
common  cause.  A  correspondence  would  be  opened.  Plans  of 
resistance  would  be  concerted.  One  spirit  would  animate  and 
conduct  the  whole.  The  same  combination,  in  short,  would  result 
from  an  apprehension  of  the  federal,  as  was  produced  by  the  dread 
of  a  forei""n  yoke  ;  and  unless  the  projected  innovations  should  be 
voluntarily  renounced,  the  same  appeal  to  a  trial  of  force  would 
be  made  in  the  one  case,  as  was  made  in  the  other.  But  what  de- 
gree of  madness  could  ever  drive  the  federal  government  to  such 
an  extremity  1  In  the  contest  with  Great  Britain,  one  part  of  the 
empire  was  employed  against  the  other.  The  more  numerous 
part  invaded  the  rights  of  the  less  numerous  part.  The  attempt 
was  unjust  and  unwise  ;  but  it  was  not  in  speculation  absolutely 
chimerical.  But  what  would  be  the  contest,  in  the  case  we  are 
supposing?  Who  would  be  the  parties?  A  few  representatives 
of  the  people  would  be  opposed  to  the  people  themselves  ;  or  rather 
one  set  of  representatives  would  be  contending  against  thirteen 
sets  of  representatives,  with  the  whole  body  of  their  common 
constituents  on  the  side  of  the  latter. 

The  only  refuge  left  for  those  who  prophesy  the  downfal  of  the 
state  o-overnments,  is  the  visionary  supposition,  that  the  federal 
government  may  previously  accumulate  a  military  force  for  the 
projects  of  ambition.  The  reasonings  contained  in  these  papers 
must  have  been  employed  to  little  purpose  indeed,  if  it  could  be 
necessary  now  to  disprove  the  reality  of  this  danger.  That  the 
people  and  the  states  should,  for  a  sufficient  period  of  time,  elect 
an  uninterrupted  succession  of  men  ready  to  betray  both ;  that 
the  traitors  should,  throughout  this  period,  uniformly  «nd  system- 
atically pursue  some  fixed  plan  for  the  extension  of  the  military 
estabHshment ;  that  the  governments  and  the  people  of  the  states 
should  Vlently  and  patiently  behold  the  gathering  storm,  and  con- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  239 

tinue  to  supply  the  materials,  until  it  should  be  prepared  to  burst 
on  their  own  heads,  must  appear  to  every  one  more  like  the  inco- 
herent dreams  of  a  delirious  jealousy,  or  the  mi.«judged  exajrgera- 
tions  of  a  counterfeit  zeal,  than  like  the  sober  apprehensions  of 
genuine  patriotism.  Extravagant  as  the  supposition  is,  let  it  how- 
ever be  made.  Let  a  regular  army,  fully  equal  to  the  resources 
of  the  country,  be  formed  ;  and  let  it  be  entirely  at  the  devotion  of 
the  federal  government;  still  it  would  not  be  going  too  far  to  say, 
that  the  state  governments,  with  the  people  on  tlieir  side,  would  be 
able  to  repel  the  danger.  The  highest  number  to  which,  accord- 
ing to  the  best  computation,  a  standing  army  can  be  carried  in 
any  country,  does  not  exceed  one  hundreth  part  of  the  whole  num- 
ber of  souls  ;  or  one  twenty-fifth  part  of  the  number  able  to  bear 
arms.  This  proportion  would  not  yield,  in  the  United  States, 
an  army  of  more  than  twenty-five  or  thirty  thousand  men.  To 
these  would  be  opposed  a  mihtia  amounting  to  near  half  a  million 
of  citizens  with  arms  in  their  hands,  officered  by  men  chosen  from 
among  themselves,  fighting  for  their  common  liberties,  and  united 
and  conducted  by  governments  possessing  their  affections  and  con- 
fidence. It  may  well  be  doubted,  whether  a  militia  thus  circum- 
stanced, could  ever  be  conquered  by  such  a  proportion  of  regular 
troops.  Those,  who  are  best  acquainted  with  the  late  successful 
resistance  of  this  country  against  the  British  arms,  will  be  most 
inclined  to  deny  the  possibility  of  it.  Besides  the  advantage  of 
being  armed,  w  hich  the  Americans  possess  over  the  people  of  al- 
most every  other  nation,  the  existence  of  subordinate  governments, 
to  which  the  people  are  attached,  and  by  which  the  militia  officers 
are  appointed,  forms  a  barrier  against  the  enterprises  of  ambition, 
more  insurmountable  than  any  which  a  simple  government  of  any 
form  can  admit  of.  Notwithstanding  the  military  establishments 
in  the  several  kingdoms  of  Europe,  which  are  carried  as  far  as 
the  public  resources  will  bear,  the  governments  are  afraid  to  trust 
the  people  with  arms.  And  it  is  not  certain,  that  with  this  aid 
alone,  they  would  not  be  able  to  shake  off  their  yokes.  But  were 
the  people  to  possess  the  additional  advantages  of  local  govern- 
ments chosen  by  themselves,  who  could  collect  the  national  will, 
and  direct  the  national  force,  and  of  officers  appointed  out  of  the 
militia,  by  these  governments,  and  attached  both  to  them  and  to 
the  militia,  it  may  be  affirmed  with  the  greatest  assurance,  that 
the  throne  of  every  tyranny  in  Europe  would  be  speedily  over- 
turned in  spite  of  the  legions  which  surround  it.  Let  us  not  in- 
sult the  free  and  gallant  citizens  of  America  with  the  suspicion, 
that  they  would  be  less  able  to  defend  the  rights  of  which  they 


240  THE  FEDERALIST. 

would  be  in  actual  possession,  than  the  debased  subjects  of  arbi- 
trary power  would  be  to  rescue  theirs  from  the  hands  of  their  op- 
pressors. Let  us  rather  no  longer  insult  them  with  the  supposi- 
tion, that  they  can  ever  reduce  themselves  to  the  necessity  of  mak- 
ing the  experiment,  by  a  blind  and  tame  submission  to  the  long 
train  of  insidious  measures  which  must  precede  and  produce  it. 

The  argument  under  the  present  head  may  be  put  into  a  very 
concise  form,  which  appears  altogether  conclusive.  Either  the 
mode  in  which  the  federal  government  is  to  be  constructed,  will 
render  it  sufficiently  dependent  on  the  people,  or  it  will  not.  On 
the  first  supposition,  it  will  be  restrained  by  that  dependence  from 
forming  schemes  obnoxious  to  their  constituents.  On  the  other 
supposition,  it  will  not  possess  the  confidence  of  the  people,  and 
its  schemes  of  usurpation  will  be  easily  defeated  by  the  state  gov- 
ernments ;  which  will  be  supported  by  the  people. 

On  summing  up  the  considerations  stated  in  this  and  the  last 
paper,  they  seem  to  amount  to  the  most  convincing  evidence,  that 
the  powers  proposed  to  be  lodged  in  the  federal  government,  are 
as  little  formidable  to  those  reserved  to  the  individual  states,  as 
they  are  indispensably  necessary  to  accomplish  the  purposes  of 
the  union  ;  and  that  all  those  alarms  which  have  been  sounded,  of 
a  meditated  and  consequential  annihilation  of  the  state  govern- 
ments, must,  on  the  most  favourable  interpretation,  be  ascribed  to 
the  chimerical  fears  of  the  authors  of  them.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XLVIL 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 


The  meaning  of  the  Maxim.,  which  requires  a  Separation  of  the  De- 
partments of  Power,  Examined  and  Ascertained. 

Having  reviewed  the  general  form  of  the  proposed  government, 
and  the  general  mass  of  power  allotted  to  it ;  I  proceed  to  examine 
the  particular  structure  of  this  government,  and  the  distribution  of 
this  mass  of  power  among  its  constituent  parts. 

One  of  the  principal  objections  inculcated  by  the  more  respec- 
table adversaries  to  the  constitution,  is  its  supposed  violation  of  the 
political  maxim,  that  the  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  de- 
partments, ought  to  be  separate  and  distinct.  In  the  structure  of 
the  federal  government,  no  regard,  it  is  said,  seems  to  have  been 
paid  to  this  essential  precaution  in  favour  of  liberty.  The  several 
departments  of  power  are  distributed  and  blended  in  such  a  man- 
ner, as  at  once  to  destroy  all  symmetry  and  beauty  of  form  ;  and 


THE  FEDERALIST.  241 

to  expose  some  of  the  essential  parts  of  the  edifice  to  the   danger 
of  being  crushed  by  the  disproportionate  weight  of  other  parts. 

No  political  truth  is  certainly  of  greater  intrinsic  value,  or  is 
stamped  with  the  authority  of  more  enlightened  patrons  of  liberty, 
than  that  on  which  the  objection  is  founded.  The  accumulation  of 
all  powers,  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary,  in  the  same  hands, 
whether  of  one,  a  few,  or  many,  and  whether  hereditary,  self-ap- 
pointed, or  elective,  may  justly  be  pronounced  the  very  definition  of 
tyranny.  Were  the  federal  constitution,  therefore,  really  ciiarge- 
able  with  this  accumulation  of  power,  or  with  a  mixture  of  pow- 
ers, having  a  dangerous  tendency  to  such  an  accumulation,  no  fur- 
ther arguments  would  be  necessary  to  inspire  a  universal  reproba- 
tion of  the  system.  I  persuade  myself,  however,  that  it  will  be  made 
apparent  to  every  one,  that  the  charge  cannot  be  supported,  and 
that  the  maxim  on  which  it  relies  has  been  totally  misconceived 
and  misapplied.  In  order  to  form  correct  ideas  on  this  important 
subject,  it  will  be  proper  to  investigate  the  sense  in  which  the  pres- 
ervation of  liberty  requires,  that  the  three  great  departments  of 
power  should  be  separate  and  distinct. 

The  oracle  who  is  always  consulted  and  cited  on  this  subject,  is 
the  celebrated  Montesquieu.  If  he  be  not  the  author  of  this  in- 
valuable precept  in  the  science  of  politics,  he  has  the  merit  at  least 
of  displaying  and  recommending  it  most  eftectually  to  the  atten- 
tion of  mankind.  Let  us  endeavour,  in  the  first  place,  to  ascertain 
his  meaning  on  this  point. 

The  British  constitution  was  to  Montesquieu,  what  Homer  has 
been  to  the  didactic  writers  on  epic  poetry.  As  the  latter  have 
considered  the  work  of  the  immortal  bard,  as  the  perfect  model 
from  which  the  principles  and  rules  of  the  epic  art  were  to  be 
drawn,  and  by  which  all  similar  works  were  to  be  judged :  so  this 
great  political  critic  appears  to  have  viewed  the  constitution  of 
England  as  the  standard,  or  to  use  his  own  expression,  as  the  mir- 
ror of  political  liberty  :  and  to  have  delivered,  in  the  form  of  ele- 
mentary truths,  the  several  characteristic  principles  of  that  particu- 
lar system.  Tiiat  we  may  be  sure  then  not  to  mistake  his  mean- 
ing in  this  case,  let  us  recur  to  the  source  from  which  the  maxim 
was  drawn. 

On  the  slightest  view  of  the  British  constitution,  we  must  per- 
ceive, that  the  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  departments, 
are  by  no  means  totally  separate  and  distinct  from  each  other. 
The  executive  magistrate  forms  an  integral  part  of  the  legislative 
authority.  He  alone  has  the  prerogative  of  making  treaties  with 
foreign  sovereigns,  vrhich,  when  made,  have,  under  certain  limita- 
29 


242  THE  FEDERALIST. 

tions,  the  force  of  legislative  acts.  All  the  members  of  the  judicia- 
ry department  are  appointed  by  him  ;  can  be  removed  by  him  on 
the  address  of  the  two  houses  of  parliament,  and  form,  when  he 
pleases  to  consult  them,  one  of  his  constitutional  councils.  One 
branch  of  the  legislative  department,  forms  also  a  great  constitu- 
tional council  to  the  executive  chief;  as,  on  another  hand,  it  is  the 
sole  depository  of  judicial  power  in  cases  of  impeachment,  and  is 
invested  with  the  supreme  appellate  jurisdiction  in  all  other  cases. 
The  judges  again  are  so  far  connected  with  the  legislative  depart- 
ment, as  often  to  attend  and  participate  in  its  deliberations,  though 
not  admitted  to  a  legislative  vote. 

From   these  facts,  by   which  Montesquieu  was  guided,  it  may 
clearly  be  inferred,  that  in  saying,  "  there  can  be  no  liberty,  where 
"  ihe  legislative  and  executive  powers  are  united  in  the  same  per- 
"  son,  or  body  of  magistrates  ;"  or,  "  if  the  power  of  judging,  be 
•'not  separated  from  the  legislative  and  executive  powers,"  he  did 
not  mean  that  these  departments  ought  to  have  no  partial  agency 
in,  or  no  control  over  the  acts  of  each  other.     His  meaning,  as  his 
own  words  import,  and  still  more  conclusively  as  illustrated  by  the 
example  in  his  eye,  can  amount  to  no  more  than  this,  that  where 
the  loliole  power  of  one  department  is  exercised  by  the  same  hands 
which  possess  the  whole  power  of  another  department,  the   funda- 
mental principles  of  a  free  constitution  are  subverted.     This  would 
have  been  the   case  in  the  constitution   examined   by  him,  if  the 
kino-,  who  is  the  sole  executive  magistrate,  had  possessed  also  the 
complete  legislative  power,  or  the  supreme   administration  of  jus- 
tice ;  or  if  the  entire  legislative  body  had  possessed  the   supreme 
judiciary,  or  the  supreme   executive  authority.     This,  however,  is 
not  among  the  vices  of  that  constitution.    The  magistrate,  in  whom 
the  whole  executive  power  resides,  cannot  of  himself  make  a  law, 
though  he  can  put  a  negative  on  every  law  ;  nor  administer  justice 
in  person,  though  he  has  the  appointment  of  those  who  do  admin- 
ister  it.     The  judges   can    exercise    no    executive    prerogative, 
though   they  are   shoots   from  the  executive   stock  ;  nor  any  leg- 
islative function,  though  they  may  be  advised  with  by  the   legisla- 
tive councils.     The  entire  legislature   can  perform  no  judiciary 
act;  though  by   the  joint  act  of  two  of  its  branches,  the  judges 
may  be  removed  from  their  offices;  and  though  one  of  its  branch- 
es is  possessed  of  the  judicial  power  in  the  last  resort.     The  entire 
legislature  again  can   exercise   no  executive  prerogative,   though 
one  of  its  branches*  constitutes  the  supreme  executive  magistra- 

*  The  king. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  243 

cy ;  and  another,  on  the  impeachment  of  a  third,  can  try  and  con- 
demn all  the  subordinate  officers  in  the  executive  department. 

The  reasons  on  which  Montesquieu  grounds  his  maxim,  are  a 
further  demonstration  of  his  meaning.  "  "SVlien  the  legislative 
"  and  executive  powers  are  united  iu  the  same  person  or  body," 
says  he,  "  there  can  be  no  liberty,  because  apprehensions  may 
"arise  lest  the  same  monarch  or  senate  should  enact  tyrannical 
"  laws,  to  execute  them  in  a  tyrannical  manner."  Again,  "  Were  the 
"power  of  judging  joined  with  the  legislative,  the  life  and  liberty 
"  of  the  subject  would  be  exposed  to  arbitrary  control,  for  the  judge 
"  would  then  be  the  legislator.  Were  it  joined  to  the  executive 
^^ -power,  the  juflge  might  behave  with  all  the  violence  of  oh  oppres- 
"  sor."  Some  of  these  reasons  are  more  fully  explained  in  other 
passages  ;  but  briefly  stated  as  they  are  here,  they  sufficiently  es- 
tablish the  meaning  which  we  have  put  on  this  celebrated  maxim 
of  this  celebrated  author. 

If  we  look  into  the  constitutions  of  the  several  states,  we  find, 
that  notwithstanding  the  emphatical,  and,  in  some  instances,  the 
unqualified  terms  in  which  this  axiom  has  been  laid  down,  there  is 
not  a  single  instance  in  which  the  several  departments  of  power 
have  been  kept  absolutely  separate  and  distinct.  New  Hamp- 
shire, w hose  constitution  was  the  last  formed,  seems  to  have  been 
fully  aware  of  the  impossibility  and  inexpediency  of  avoiding  any 
mixture  whatever  of  these  departments  ;  and  has  qualified  the 
doctrine  by  declaring,  "  that  the  legislative,  executive,  and  judicia- 
"ry  powers,  ought  to  be  kept  as  separate  from,  and  independent 
"  of  each  other,  as  the  nature  of  a  free  government  will  admit ;  or 
"  as  is  consistent  ivith  that  chain  of  connexion,  that  binds  the  whole 
*^ fabric  of  the  constitution  in  one  indissoluble  bond  of  unity  and 
^'■amityy  Her  constitution  accordingly  mixes  these  departments 
in  several  respects.  The  senate,  which  is  a  branch  of  the  legisla- 
tive department,  is  also  a  judicial  tribunal  for  the  trial  of  impeach- 
ments. The  president,  who  is  the  head  of  the  executive  depart- 
ment, is  the  presiding  member  also  of  the  senate;  and,  besides  an 
equal  vote  in  all  cases,  has  a  casting  vote  in  case  of  a  tie.  The 
executive  head  is  himself  eventually  elective  every  year  by  the 
legislative  department ;  and  his  council  is  every  year  chosen  by 
and  from  the  members  of  the  same  department.  Several  of  the 
officers  of  state  are  also  appointed  by  the  legislature.  And  the 
members  of  the  judiciary  department  are  appointed  by  the  execu- 
tive department. 

The  constitution  of  Massachusetts  has  observed  a  sufiicient, 
though  less  pointed  caution,  in  expressing  this  fundamental  article 


244  THE  FEDERALIST. 

of  liberty.  It  declares,  "  that  the  legislative  department  shall 
"  never  exercise  the  executive  and  judicial  powers,  or  either  of 
«'  them  :  the  executive  shall  never  exercise  the  legislative  and  ju- 
"  dicial  powers,  or  either  of  them  :  the  judicial  shall  never  exer- 
"  cise  tiie  legislative  and  executive  powers,  or  either  of  them.'* 
Tliis  declaration  corresponds  precisely  with  the  doctrine  of  Mon- 
tesquieu, as  it  has  been  explained,  and  is  not  in  a  single  point  vio- 
lated by  the  plan  of  the  convention.  It  goes  no  farther  than  to 
prohibit  any  one  of  the  entire  departments  from  exercising  the 
powers  of  another  department.  In  the  very  constitution  to  which 
it  is  prefixed,  a  partial  mixture  of  powers  has  been  admitted.  The 
executive  magistrate  has  a  qualified  negative  on  the  legislative 
body  ;  and  the  senate,  which  is  a  part  of  the  legislature,  is  a  court 
of  impeachment  for  members  both  of  the  executive  and  judiciary 
departments.  The  members  of  the  judiciary  department,  again, 
are  appointable  by  the  executive  department,  and  removeable  by 
the  same  authority,  on  the  address  of  the  two  legislative  branches. 
Lastly,  a  number  of  the  oflScers  of  government  are  annually  ap- 
pointed by  the  legislative  department.  As  the  appointment  to  offi- 
ces, particularly  executive  offices,  is  in  its  nature  an  executive 
function,  the  compilers  of  the  constitution  have,  in  this  last  point 
at  least,  violated  the  rule  established  by  themselves. 

I  pass  over  the  constitutions  of  Rhode  Island  and  Connecticut, 
because  they  were  formed  prior  to  the  revolution  ;  and  even  be- 
fore the  principle  under  examination  had  become  an  object  of  po- 
litical attention. 

The  constitution  of  New  York  contains  no  declaration  on  this 
subject;  but  appears  very  clearly  to  have  been  framed  with  an 
eye  to  the  danger  of  improperly  blending  the  different  depart- 
ments. It  gives,  nevertheless,  to  the  executive  magistrate  a  par- 
tial control  over  the  legislative  department ;  and,  what  is  more, 
gives  a  like  control  to  the  judiciary  department,  and  even  blends 
the  executive  and  judiciary  departments  in  the  exercise  of  this 
control.  In  its  council  of  appointment,  members  of  the  legisla- 
tive are  associated  with  the  executive  authority,  in  the  appoint- 
ment of  officers,  both  executive  and  judiciary.  And  its  court  for 
the  trial  of  impeachments  and  correction  of  errours,  is  to  consist 
of  one  branch  of  the  legislature  and  the  principal  members  of  the 
judiciary  department. 

The  constitution  of  New  Jersey  has  blended  the  different  pow- 
ers of  government  more  than  any  of  the  preceding.  The  gov- 
ernour,  who  is  the  executive  magistrate,  is  appointed  by  the  legis- 
lature ;  is  chancellor  and  ordinary,  or  surrogate  of  the  state  ;  is  a 


THE  FEDERALIST.  245 

member  of  the  supreme  court  of  appeals,  and  president  with  a 
casting  vote  of  one  of  the  legislative  branches.  The  same  legis- 
lative branch  acts  again  as  executive  council  of  the  governonr, 
and  with  him  constitutes  the  court  of  ap|)eals.  The  members  of 
the  judiciary  department  are  appointed  by  the  legislative  depart- 
ment, and  removeable  by  one  branch  of  it  on  the  impeachment  of 
the  other. 

According  to  the  constitution  of  Pennsylvania,*  the  president, 
who  is  head  of  the  executive  department,  is  annually  elected  by  a 
vote  in  which  the  legislative  department  predominates.  In  con- 
junction with  an  executive  council,  he  appoints  the  members  of 
the  judiciary  department,  and  forms  a  court  of  impeachment  for 
trial  of  all  officers,  judiciary  as  well  as  executive.  The  judges  of 
the  supreme  court,  and  justices  of  the  peace  seem  also  to  be  re- 
moveable by  the  legislature ;  and  the  executive  power  of  pardon- 
ing in  certain  cases  to  be  referred  to  the  same  department.  The 
members  of  the  executive  council  are  made  ex  officio  justices  of 
peace  throughout  the  state. 

In  Delaware,*  the  chief  executive  magistrate  is  annually  elect- 
ed by  the  legislative  department.  The  speakers  of  the  two  legis- 
lative branches  are  vice-presidents  in  the  executive  department. 
The  executive  chief,  with  six  others,  appointed  three  by  each  of 
the  legislative  branches,  constitute  the  supreme  court  of  appeals  : 
he  is  joined  with  the  legislative  department  in  the  appointment  of 
the  other  judges.  Throughout  the  states,  it  appears  the  members 
of  the  legislature  may  at  the  same  time  be  justices  of  the  peace. 
In  this  state,  the  members  of  one  branch  of  it  are  ex  officio  jus- 
tices of  the  peace  ;  as  are  also  the  members  of  the  executive  coun- 
cil. The  principal  officers  of  the  executive  department  are  ap- 
pointed by  the  legislative  ;  and  one  branch  of  the  latter  forms  a 
court  of  impeachments.  All  officers  may  be  removed  on  address 
of  the  legislature. 

Maryland  has  adopted  the  maxim  in  the  most  unqualified  terms  ; 
declaring  that  the  legislative,  executive,  and  judicial  powers  of 
govenmient,  ought  to  be  for  ever  separate  and  distinct  from  each 
other.  Her  constitution,  notwithstanding,  makes  the  executive 
magistrate  appointable  by  the  legislative  department ;  and  the 
members  of  the  judiciary  by  the  executive  department. 

The  language  of  Virginia  is  still  more  pointed  on  this  subject. 
Her  constitution  declares,  "  that  the  legislative,  executive,  and  ju- 
■"  diciary  departments,  shall  be  separate  and  distinct ;  so  that 
*'  neither  exercise  the  powers  properly  belonging  to  the  other ; 

*  The  constiiutions  of  these  states  have  been  since  altered. 


246  THE  FEDERALIST. 

"  nor  sliall  any  person  exercise  the  powers  of  more  than  one  of 
"  them  at  the  same  time  ;  except  that  the  justices  of  county  courts 
"  shall  be  eligible  to  either  house  of  assembly."  Yet  we  find  not 
only  this  express  exception,  with  respect  to  the  members  of  the 
inferiour  courts;  but  that  the  chief  magistrate,  with  his  executive 
council,  are  appointable  by  the  legislature  ;  that  two  members  of 
the  latter,  are  triennially  displaced  at  the  pleasure  of  the  legisla- 
ture ;  and  that  all  the  principal  officers,  both  executive  and  judi- 
ciary, are  filled  by  the  same  department.  The  executive  preroga- 
tive of  pardoning,  also,  is  in  one  case  vested  in  the  legislative  de- 
partment. 

The  Constitution  of  North  Carolina  which  declares,  "  that  the 
"legislative,  executive,  and  supreme  judicial  powers  of  govern- 
"  ment,  ou^ht  to  be  for  ever  separate  and  distinct  from  each  other," 
refers  at  the  same  time,  to  the  legislative  department,  the  appoint- 
ment not  only  of  the  executive  chief,  but  all  the  principal  ofiicers 
within  both  that  and  the  judiciary  department. 

In  South  Carolina,  the  constitution  makes  the  executive  magis- 
tracy eligible  by  the  legislative  department.  It  gives  to  the  latter, 
also,  the  appointment  of  the  members  of  the  judiciary  department, 
including  even  justices  of  the  peace  and  sheriffs  ;  and  the  appoint- 
ment of  ofticers  in  the  executive  department,  down  to  captains  in 
the  army  and  navy  of  the  state. 

In  the  constitution  of  Georgia,  where  it  is  declared,  "that  the 
*' legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  departn)ents,  shall  be  sepa- 
"  rate  and  distinct,  so  that  neither  exercise  the  powers  properly 
"  belonging  to  the  other,"  we  find  that  the  executive  department 
is  to  be  filled  by  appointments  of  the  legislature;  and  the  execu- 
tive prerogative  of  pardojiing  to  be  finally  exercised  by  the  same 
authority.  Even  justices  of  the  peace  are  to  be  appointed  by  the 
legislature. 

In  citing  these  cases  in  which  the  legislative,  executive,  and  ju- 
diciary departments,  have  not  been  kept  totally  separate  and  dis- 
tinct, I  wish  not  to  be  regarded  as  an  advocate  for  the  particular 
oro-anizations  of  the  several  state  governments  I  am  fully  aware, 
that  among  the  many  excellent  principles  which  they  exemplify, 
they  carry  strong  marks  of  the  haste,  and  still  stronger  of  the  in- 
experience, under  which  they  were  franied.  It  is  but  too  obvious, 
that  in  some  instances,  the  fundamental  principle  under  consider- 
ation, has  been  violated  by  too  great  a  mixture,  and  even  an  actu- 
al consolidation  of  the  different  powers  ;  and  that  in  no  instance 
has  a  competent  provision  been  made  for  maintaining  in  practice 
the  separation  delineated  on  paper.     Wliat  I  have  wished  to  evince 


THE  FEDERALIST.  247 

is,  that  the  charge  brought  against  the  proposed  constitution,  of 
violating  a  sacred  maxim  of  free  government,  is  warranted  neither 
by  the  real  meaning  annexed  to  that  maxim  by  its  author,  nor  by 
the  sense  in  which  it  has  hitherto  been  understood  in  America. 
This  interesting  subject  will  be  resumed  in  the  ensuing  paper. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XLVIII. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued,  with  a  Vieiv  to  the  means  of  giving 
Efficacy  in  Practice  to  that  Maxim. 
It  was  shown  in  the  last  paper,  that  the  political  apothegm  there 
examined,  does  not  require  that  the  legislative,  executive,  and  ju- 
diciary departments,  should  be  wholly  unconnected  with  each 
other.  I  shall  undertake  in  the  next  place  to  show,  that  unless  these 
departments  be  so  far  connected  and  blended,  as  to  give  to  each 
a  constitutional  control  over  the  others,  the  degree  of  separatioa 
which  the  maxim  requires,  as  essential  to  a  free  government,  can 
never  in  practice  be  duly  maintained. 

It  is  agreed  on  all  sides,  that  the  powers  properly  belonging  ta 
one  of  the  departments  ought  not  to  be  directly  and  completely 
administered  by  either  of  the  other  departments.  It  is  equally 
evident,  that  neither  of  them  ought  to  possess,  directly  or  indi- 
rectly, an  overruling  influence  over  the  others  in  the  administra- 
tion of  their  respective  powers.  It  will  not  be  denied,  that  pow- 
er is  of  an  encroaching  nature,  and  that  it  ought  to  be  etfectually 
restrained  from  passing  the  limits  assigned  to  it.  After  discrim- 
inating, therefore,  in  theory,  the  several  classes  of  power,  as  they 
may  in  their  nature  be  legislative,  executive,  or  judiciary  ;  the  next, 
and  most  difficult  task,  is  to  provide  some  practical  security  for 
each,  against  the  invasion  of  the  others.  What  this  security  ought 
to  be,  is  the  great  problem  to  be  solved. 

Will  it  be  sufficient  to  mark,  with  precision,  the  boundaries  of 
these  dei)artments,  in  the  constitution  of  the  government,  and  to 
trust  to  these  parchment  barriers  against  the  encroaching  spirit  of 
power?  This  is  the  security  which  appears  to  have  been  princi- 
pally relied  on  by  the  compilers  of  most  of  the  American  consti- 
tutions. But  experience  assures  us,  that  the  efficacy  of  the  pro- 
vision has  been  greatly  overrated  ;  and  that  some  more  adequate 
defence  is  indispensably  necessary  for  the  more  feeble,  against 
the  more  powerful  members  of  the  government.      The  legislative 


248  THE  TEDERALIST. 

department  is  everywhere  extending  the  sphere  of  its  activity,  and 
drawing  all  power  into  its  impetuous  vortex. 

The  founders  of  our  repubhes  have  so  much  merit  for  the  wis- 
dom which  they  liave  displayed,  that  no  task  can  be  less  pleasing 
than  that  of  pointing  out  the  errours  into  which  they  have  fallen. 
A  respect  for  truth,  however,  obliges  us  to  remark,  that  they  seem 
never  for  a  moment  to  have  turned  their  eyes  from  the  danger  to  lib- 
erty, from  the  overgrown  and  all-grasping  prerogative  of  an  heredi- 
tary magistrate,  supported  and  fortified  by  an  hereditary  branch 
of  the  legislative  authority.  They  seem  never  to  have  recollected 
the  danger  from  legislative  usurpations,  which,  by  assembling  all 
power  in  the  same  hands,  must  lead  to  the  same  tyranny  as  is 
threatened  by  executive  usurpations. 

In  a  government  where  numerous  and  extensive  prerogatives 
are  placed  in  the  hands  of  an  hereditary  monarch,  the  executive 
department  is  very  justly  regarded  as  the  source  of  danger,  and 
watched  with  all  the  jealousy  which  a  zeal  for  liberty  ought  to  in- 
spire. In  a  democracy,  where  a  multitude  of  people  exercise  in 
person  the  legislative  functions,  and  are  continually  exposed,  by 
their  incapacity  for  regular  deliberation  and  concerted  measures, 
to  the  ambitious  intrigues  of  their  executive  magistrates,  tyranny 
may  well  be  apprehended  on  some  favourable  emergency,  to  start 
up  in  the  same  quarter.  But  in  a  representative  republic,  where 
the  executive  magistracy  is  carefully  limited,  both  in  the  extent 
and  the  duration  of  its  power;  and  where  the  legislative  power  is 
exercised  by  an  assembly,  which  is  inspired  by  a  supposed  influ- 
ence over  the  people,  with  an  intrepid  confidence  in  its  own 
strength  ;  which  is  sufficiently  numerous  to  feel  all  the  passions 
which  actuate  a  multitude  ;  yet  not  so  numerous  as  to  be  incapa- 
ble of  pursuing  the  objects  of  its  passions,  by  means  which  reason 
prescribes  ;  it  is  against  the  enterprising  ambition  of  this  depart- 
ment, that  the  people  ought  to  indulge  all  their  jealousy  and  ex- 
haust all  their  precautions. 

The  legislative  department  derives  a  superiority  in  our  govern- 
ments from  other  circumstances.  Its  constitutional  powers  being 
at  once  more  extensive,  and  less  susceptible  of  precise  limits,  it 
can,  with  the  greater  facility,  mask,  under  complicated  and  indi- 
rect measures,  the  encroachments  which  it  makes  on  the  coordi- 
nate departments.  It  is  not  unfrequently  a  question  of  real  nicety 
in  legislative  bodies,  whether  the  operation  of  a  particular  mea- 
sure will,  or  will  not  extend  beyond  the  legislative  sphere.  On  the 
other  side,  the  executive  power  being  restrained  within  a  narrower 
compass,  and  being  more  simple  in  its  nature ;  and  the  judiciary 


THE  FEDERALIST.  249 

being  described  by  landmarks,  still  less  uncertain,  projects  of  usur* 
pation  by  either  of  these  departments  would  immediately  betray  and 
defeat  themselves.  Nor  is  this  all:  as  the  legislative  department 
alone  has  access  to  the  pockets  of  the  people,  and  has  in  some 
constitutions  full  discretion,  and  in  all  a  prevailing  influence  over 
the  pecuniary  rewards  of  those  who  fill  the  other  departments  ;  a 
dependence  is  thus  created  in  the  latter,  which  gives  still  greater 
facility  to  encroachments  of  the  former. 

I  have  appealed  to  our  own  experience  for  the  truth  of  what  I 
advance  on  this  subject.  Were  it  necessary  to  verify  this  experi- 
ence by  particular  proofs,  they  might  be  multiplied  without  end. 
I  might  collect  vouchers  in  abundance  from  the  records  and  ar- 
chives of  every  state  in  the  union.  But  as  a  more  concise,  and 
at  the  same  time  equally  satisfactory  evidence,  I  will  refer  to  the 
example  of  two  states,  attested  by  two  unexceptionable  authorities. 

The  first  example  is  that  of  Virginia,  a  state  which,  as  we  have 
seen,  has  expressly  declared  in  its  constitution,  that  the  three  great 
departments  ought  not  to  be  intermixed.  The  authority  in  sup- 
port of  it  is  Mr.  Jefferson,  who,  besides  his  other  advantages  for 
remarking  the  operation  of  the  government,  was  himself  the  chief 
magistrate  of  it.  In  order  to  convey  fully  the  ideas  with  which 
his  experience  had  impressed  him  on  this  subject,  it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  quote  a  passage  of  some  length  from  his  very  interesting 
"  Notes  on  the  state  of  Virginia,"  p.  195.  "  All  the  powers  of 
"  government,  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary,  result  to  the  legis- 
*'  lative  body.  The  concentrating  these  in  the  same  hands,  is  pre- 
*'  cisely  the  definition  of  despotic  government.  It  will  be  no  al- 
"  leviation  that  these  powers  will  be  exercised  by  a  plurality  of 
«'  hands,  and  not  by  a  single  one.  One  hundred  and  seventy-three 
"  despots  would  surely  be  as  oppressive  as  one.  Let  those  who 
"  doubt  it,  turn  their  eyes  on  the  republic  of  Venice.  As  little  will 
"it  avail  us,  that  they  are  chosen  by  ourselves.  An  elective  des- 
"potism  was  not  the  government  we  fought  for ;  but  one  which 
*«  should  not  only  be  founded  on  free  principles,  but  in  which  the 
«'  powers  of  government  should  be  so  divided  and  balanced  among 
"  several  bodies  of  magistracy,  as  that  no  one  could  transcend  their 
"legal  limits,  without  being  effectually  checked  and  restrained  by 
"  the  others.  For  this  reason,  that  convention  which  passed  the 
"  ordinance  of  government,  laid  its  foundation  on  this  basis,  that 
"the  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  departments  should  be 
"separate  and  distinct,  so  that  no  person  should  exercise  the  pow- 
"  ersof  more  than  one  of  them  at  the  same  time.  But  no  barrier 
*^was  provided  between  these  several  powers.  The  judiciary  and  ex- 
30 


250  THE  FEDERALIST. 

"  ecutive  members  were  left  dependent  on  the  legislative  for  their 
"  subsistence  in  office,  and  some  of  them  for  their  continuance  in  it. 
"  If,  therefore,  the  legislature  assumes  executive  and  judiciary 
•'  powers,  no  opposition  is  likely  to  be  made  ;  nor,  if  made,  can 
"  be  effectual  ;  because  in  that  case,  they  may  put  their  proceed- 
"  ings  into  the  form  of  an  act  of  assembly,  which  will  render  them 
"  obligatory  on  the  other  branches.  They  have  accordingly,  in 
"  many  instances  decided  rights,  which  should  have  been  left  to 
^^  judiciary  controversy ;  and  the  direction  of  the  executive,  during 
"  the  whole  time  of  their  session,  is  becoming  habitual  and  familiar.'''' 

The  other  state,  which  I  shall  take  for  an  example,  is  Pennsyl- 
vania ;  and  the  other  authority  the  council  of  censors  which  as- 
sembled in  the  year  1783  and  1784.  A  part  of  the  duty  of  this 
body,  as  marked  out  by  the  constitution,  was  "  to  inquire,  whether 
"the  constitution  had  been  preserved  inviolate  in  every  part ;  and 
•'  whether  the  legislative  and  executive  branches  of  government 
•'  had  performed  their  duty  as  guardians  of  the  people,  or  assum- 
"  ed  to  themselves,  or  exercised  other  or  greater  powers  than  they 
"  are  entitled  to  by  the  constitution."  In  the  execution  of  this 
trust,  the  council  were  necessarily  led  to  a  comparison  of  both  the 
legislative  and  executive  proceedings,  with  the  constitutional  pow- 
ers of  these  departments;  and  from  the  facts  enumerated,  and  to 
the  truth  of  most  of  which  both  sides  in  the  council  subscribed,  it 
appears,  that  the  constitution  had  been  flagrantly  violated  by  the 
legislature  in  a  variety  of  important  instances. 

A  great  number  of  laws  had  been  passed,  violating,  without  any 
apparent  necessity,  the  rule  requiring  that  all  bills  of  a  public  na- 
ture shall  be  previously  printed  for  the  consideraticm  of  the  peo- 
ple ;  although  this  is  one  of  the  precautions  chiefly  relied  on  by 
the  constitution  against  improper  acts  of  the  legislature. 

The  constitutional  trial  by  jury  had  been  violated  ;  and  pow- 
ers assumed,  which  had  not  been  delegated  by  the  constitution. 

Executive  powers  had  been  usurped. 

The  salaries  of  the  judges,  which  the  constitution  expressly  re- 
quires to  be  fixed,  had  been  occasionally  varied  ;  and  cases  belong- 
ing to  the  judiciary  department  frequently  drawn  within  legislative 
cognizance  and  determination. 

Those  who  wish  to  see  the  several  particulars  falling  under  each 
of  these  heads,  may  consult  the  journals  of  the  council,  which  are 
in  print.  Some  of  them,  it  will  be  found,  may  be  imputable  to  pe- 
culiar circumstances  connected  with  the  war:  but  the  greater  part 
of  them  may  be  considered  as  the  spontaneous  shoots  of  an  ill-con- 
stituted government. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  851 

It  appears  also,  that  the  executive  department  had  not  been  in- 
nocent of  frequent  breaches  of  the  constitution.  There  are  three 
observations,  however,  which  ought  to  be  made  on  this  head  :  Firsts 
A  great  proportion  of  the  instances  were  either  immediately  pro- 
duced by  the  necessities  of  the  war,  or  recommended  by  congress, 
or  the  commander  in  chief :  Second,  In  most  of  the  other  instances, 
they  conformed  either  to  the  declared  or  the  known  sentiments  of 
the  legislative  department :  Third,  The  executive  department  of 
Pennsylvania  is  distinguished  from  that  of  the  other  states,  by 
the  number  of  members  composing  it.  In  this  respect,  it  has  as 
much  affinity  to  a  legislative  assembly,  as  to  an  executive  council. 
And  being  at  once  exempt  from  the  restraint  of  an  individual  re- 
sponsibility for  the  acts  of  the  body,  and  deriving  confidence  from 
mutual  example  and  joint  influence  ;  unauthorized  measures  would 
of  course  be  more  freely  hazarded,  than  where  the  executive  de- 
partment is  administered  by  a  single  hand,  or  by  a  few  hands. 

The  conclusion  which  I  am  warranted  in  drawing  from  these 
observations  is,  that  a  mere  demarkation  on  parchment  of  the  con- 
stitutional limits  of  the  several  departments,  is  not  a  sufficient 
guard  against  those  encroachments  which  lead  to  a  tyrannical  con- 
centration of  all  the  powers  of  government  in  the  same  hands. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  XLIX. 

By  JAMES  MADISON. 

Tlie  same  Subject  Continued,  with  the  same  View. 
The  author  of  the  "  Notes  on  the  state  of  Virginia,"  quoted  in 
the  last  paper,  has  subjoined  to  that  valuable  work  the  draught  of 
a  constitution,  which  had  been  prepared  in  order  to  be  laid  before 
a  convention  expected  to  be  called  in  17S3,  by  the  legislature  for 
the  establishment  of  a  constitution  for  that  commonwealth.  The 
plan,  like  every  thing  from  the  same  pen,  marks  a  turn  of  think- 
injr  original,  comprehensive,  and  accurate  ;  and  is  the  more  worthy 
of  attention  as  it  equally  displays  a  fervent  attachment  to  republi- 
can government,  and  an  enlightened  view  of  the  dangerous  pro- 
pensities against  which  it  ought  to  be  guarded.  One  of  the  pre- 
cautions which  he  proposes,  and  on  which  he  appears  ultiinately 
to  rely  as  a  palladium  to  the  weaker  departments  of  power,  against 
the  invasions  of  the  stronger,  is  perhaps  altogether  his  own,  and 
as  it  immediately  relates  to  the  subject  of  our  present  inquiry, 
ought  not  to  be  overlooked. 


263  THE  FEDERALIST. 

His  proposition  is,  "  that  whenever  any  two  of  the  three  branch- 
"  es  of  government  shall  concur  in  opinion,  each  by  the  voices  of 
"  two  thirds  of  their  whole  number,  that  a  convention  is  necessary 
"  for  altering  the  constitution,  or  correcting  breaches  of  it,  a  con- 
"  veiition  shall  be  called  for  the  purpose." 

As  the  people  are  the  only  legitimate  fountain  of  power,  and  it 
is  from  them  that  the  constitutional  charter,  under  which  the  sev- 
eral branches  of  government  hold  their  power,  is  derived  ;  it  seems 
strictly  consonant  to  the  republican  theory,  to  recur  to  the  same 
original  authority,  not  only  whenever  it  n)ay  be  necessary  to  en- 
large, diminish,  or  new-model  the  powers  of  government;  butalsa 
whenever  any  one  of  the  departments  may  commit  encroachments 
on  the  chartered  authorities  of  the  others.  The  several  depart- 
ments being  perfectly  coordinate  by  the  terms  of  their  common 
commission,  neither  of  them,  it  is  evident,  can  pretend  to  an  ex- 
clusive or  superiour  right  of  settling  the  boundaries  between  their 
respective  powers  :  and  how  are  the  encroachments  of  the  strong- 
er to  be  prevented,  or  the  wrongs  of  the  weaker  to  be  redressed, 
without  an  appeal  to  the  people  themselves,  who,  as  the  grantors 
of  the  commission,  can  alone  declare  its  true  meaning,  and  en- 
force its  observance  1 

There  is  certainly  great  force  in  this  reasoning,  and  it  must  be 
allowed  to  prove,  that  a  constitutional  road  to  the  decision  of  the 
people  ought  to  be  marked  out  and  kept  open,  for  certain  great 
and  extraordinary  occasions.  But  there  appear  to  be  insuperable 
objections  against  the  proposed  recurrence  to  the  people,  as  a  pro- 
vision in  all  cases  for  keepin&lt;r  the  several  departments  of  power 
within  their  constitutional  limits. 

In  the  first  place,  the  provision  does  not  reach  the  case  of  a 
combination  of  two  of  the  departments  against  a  third.  If  the 
legislative  authority,  which  possesses  so  many  means  of  operating 
on  the  motives  of  the  other  departments,  should  be  able  to  gain  to 
its  interest  either  of  the  others,  or  even  one  third  of  its  members, 
the  remaining  department  could  derive  no  advantage  from  this 
renie  Mai  provision.  I  do  not  dwell,  however,  on  tliis  objection, 
because  it  may  be  thought  to  lie  rather  against  the  modification  of 
the  principle,  than  against  the  principle  itself. 

In  the  next  place,  it  may  be  considered  as  an  objection  inherent 
in  the  principle,  that  as  every  appeal  to  the  people  would  carry 
au  implication  of  some  defect  in  the  government,  frequent  appeals 
would,  in  a  great  measure,  deprive  the  government  of  that  vener- 
ation which  time  bestows  on  every  thing,  and  without  Avhich,  per- 
haps, the  wisest  and  freest  governments  would   not  possess  the 


THE  FEDERALIST.  253 

requisite  stability.  If  it  be  true  that  all  governments  rest  on  opin- 
ion, it  is  no  less  true,  that  the  strength  of  opinion  in  each  individ- 
ual, and  its  practical  influence  on  his  conduct,  depend  much  on 
the  number  which  he  supposes  to  have  entertained  the  same  opin- 
ion. The  reason  of  man,  like  man  himself,  is  timid  and  cautious 
when  left  alone  ;  and  acquires  firmness  and  confidence,  in  propor- 
tion to  the  number  with  which  it  is  associated.  When  the  exam- 
ples whicli  fortify  opinion  are  ancient,  as  well  as  numerous,  they 
are  known  to  have  a  double  effect.  In  a  nation  of  philosophers, 
this  consideration  ought  to  be  disregarded.  A  reverence  for  the 
laws  would  be  sufficiently  inculcated  by  the  voice  of  an  enlighten- 
ed reason.  But  a  nation  of  philosophers  is  as  little  to  be  expect- 
ed, as  the  philosophical  race  of  kings  wished  for  by  Plato.  And 
in  every  other  nation,  the  most  rational  government  will  not  find 
it  a  superfluous  advantage  to  have  the  prejudices  of  the  communi- 
ty on  its  side. 

The  danger  of  disturbing  the  public  tranquillity,  by  interesting 
too  strongly  the  public  passions,  is  a  still  more  serious  objection 
against  a  frequent  reference  of  constitutional  questions  to  the  de- 
cision of  the  whole  society.  Notwithstanding  the  success  which 
has  attended  the  revisions  of  our  established  forms  of  government, 
and  which  does  so  much  honour  to  the  virtue  and  intelligence  of 
the  people  of  America,  it  must  be  confessed,  that  the  experiments 
are  of  too  ticklish  a  nature  to  be  unnecessarily  multiplied.  We 
are  to  recollect,  that  all  the  existing  constitutions  were  formed  in 
the  midst  of  a  danger  which  repressed  the  passions  most  unfriend- 
ly to  order  and  concord  ;  of  an  enthusiastic  confidence  of  the 
people  in  their  patriotic  leaders,  which  stifled  the  ordinary  diver- 
sity of  opinions  on  great  national  questions  ;  of  a  universal  ardour 
for  new  and  opposite  forms,  produced  by  a  universal  resentment 
and  indignation  against  the  ancient  government ;  and  whilst  no 
spirit  of  party,  connected  with  the  changes  to  be  made,  or  the 
abuses  to  be  reformed,  could  mingle  its  leaven  in  the  operation. 
The  future  situations  in  which  we  must  expect  to  be  usually  placed, 
do  not  present  any  equivalent  security  against  the  danger  which  is 
apprehended. 

But  the  greatest  objection  of  all  is,  that  the  decisions  which  would 
probably  result  from  such  appeals,  would  not  answer  the  purpose 
of  maintaining  the  constitutional  equilibrium  of  the  government. 
We  have  seen  that  the  tendency  of  republican  governments  is,  to 
an  aggrandizement  of  the  legislative,  at  the  expense  of  the  other 
departments.  The  appeals  to  the  people,  therefore,  would  usually 
be  made  by  the  executive  and  judiciary  departments.    But  whether 


254  THE  FEDERALIST. 

made  by  one  side  or  the  other,  would  each  side  enjoy  equal  advanta- 
ges on  the  trial  1  Let  us  view  their  different  situations.  The  mem- 
bers of  the  executive  and  judiciary  departments  are  few  in  num- 
ber, and  can  be  personally  known  to  a  small  part  otdy  of  the  peo- 
ple. The  latter,  by  the  mode  of  their  appointment,  as  well  as  by 
the  nature  and  permanency  of  it,  are  too  far  removed  from  the 
people  to  share  much  in  their  prepossessions.  The  former  are 
generally  the  objects  of  jealousy ;  and  their  administration  is 
always  liable  to  be  discoloured  and  rendered  unpopular.  The 
members  of  the  legislative  department,  on  the  other  hand,  are  nu- 
merous. They  are  distiibuted  and  dwell  among  the  people  at 
large.  Their  connexions  of  blood,  of  friendship,  and  of  acquaint- 
ance, embrace  a  great  proportion  of  the  most  influential  part  of 
the  society.  The  nature  of  their  public  trust  implies  a  personal 
influence  among  the  people,  and  that  they  are  more  immediately 
the  confidential  guardians  of  their  rights  and  liberties.  With 
these  advantages,  it  can  hardly  be  supposed,  that  the  adverse 
party  would  have  an  equal  chance  for  a  favourable  issue. 

But  the  legislative  party  would  not  be  able  to  plead  their  cause 
most  successfully  with  the  people  :  they  would  probably  be  consti- 
tuted themselves  the  judges.  The  same  influence  which  had  gained 
them  an  election  into  the  legislature,  would  gain  them  a  seat  in 
the  convention.  If  this  should  not  be  the  case  with  all,  it  would 
probably  be  the  case  with  many,  and  pretty  certainly  with  those  lead- 
ing characters,  on  whom  every  thing  depends  in  such  bodies.  The 
convention,  in  short,  would  be  composed  chiefly  of  men  who  had 
been,  who  actually  were,  or  who  expected  to  be  members  of  the 
department  whose  conduct  was  arraigned.  They  would  conse- 
quently be  parties  to  the  very  question  to  be  decided  by  them. 

It  might,  however,  sometimes  happen,  that  appeals  would  be 
made  under  circumstances  less  adverse  to  the  executive  and  judi- 
ciary departments.  The  usurpations  of  the  legislature  might  be 
so  flagrant  and  so  sudden,  as  to  admit  of  no  specious  colouring. 
A  strong  party  among  themselves  might  take  side  with  the  other 
branches.  The  executive  power  might  be  in  the  hands  of  a  pecu- 
liar favourite  of  the  people.  In  such  a  posture  of  things,  the  pub* 
lie  decision  might  be  less  swayed  by  prepossessions  in  favour  of 
the  legislative  party.  But  still  it  could  never  be  expected  to  turn 
on  the  true  merits  of  the  question.  It  would  inevitably  be  con- 
nected with  the  spirit  of  preexisting  parlies,  or  of  parties  spring- 
ing out  of  the  question  itself.  It  would  be  connected  with  persons 
of  distinguished  character,  and  extensive  influence  in  the  commu- 
nity.    It  would  be  pronounced  by  the  very  men  who  had  been 


THE  FEDERALIST.  255 

agents  in,  or  opponents  of  the  measures,  to  which  the  decision 
would  relate.  The  passions,  therefore,  not  the  reason,  of  the  pub- 
lic, would  sit  in  judgment.  But  it  is  the  reason  of  the  public  alone, 
that  ought  to  control  and  regulate  the  government.  The  passions 
ought  to  be  controlled  and  regulated  by  the  government. 

We  found  in  the  last  paper,  that  mere  declarations  in  the  writ- 
ten constitution,  are  not  sufficient  to  restrain  the  several  depart- 
ments within  their  legal  limits.  It  appears  in  this,  that  occasional 
appeals  to  the  people  would  be  neither  a  proper,  nor  an  effectual 
provision  for  that  purpose.  How  far  the  provisions  of  a  different 
nature  contained  in  the  plan  above  quoted,  might  be  adequate,  I 
do  not  examine.  Some  of  them  are  unquestionably  founded  on 
sound  political  principles,  and  all  of  them  are  framed  with  singu- 
lar ingenuity  and  precision.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  L. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 

TTie  same  Subject  Continved,  with  the  same  View. 

It  may  be  contended,  perhaps,  that  instead  of  occasional  ap- 
peals to  the  people,  which  are  liable  to  the  objections  urged  against 
them,  periodical  appeals  are  the  proper  and  adequate  means  of 
preventing  and  correcting  infractions  of  the  constitution. 

It  will  be  attended  to,  that  in  the  examinati(»n  of  these  expedi- 
ents, I  confine  myself  to  their  aptitude  for  enforcing  the  constitu- 
tion, by  keeping  the  several  departments  of  power  within  their 
due  bounds  ;  without  particularly  considering  them  as  provisions 
for  altering  the  constitution  itself.  In  the  first  view,  appeals  to 
the  people  at  fixed  periods,  appear  to  be  nearly  as  ineligible,  as 
appeals  on  particular  occasions  as  they  emerge.  If  the  periods 
be  separated  by  short  intervals,  the  measures  to  be  reviewed  and 
rectified,  will  have  been  of  recent  date,  and  will  be  connected  with 
all  the  circumstances  which  tend  to  vitiate  and  pervert  the  result 
of  occasional  revisions.  If  the  periods  be  distant  from  each 
other,  the  same  remark  will  be  applicable  to  all  recent  measures  ; 
and  in  proportion  as  the  remoteness  of  the  others  may  favour  a 
dispassionate  review  of  them,  this  advantage  is  inseparable  from 
inconveniences  which  seem  to  counterbalance  it.  In  the  first 
place,  a  distinct  prospect  of  public  censure  would  be  a  very  feeble 
restraint  on  power  from  those  excesses,  to  which  it  might  be  urged 
by  the  force  of  present  motives.     Is  it  to  be  imagined,  that  a  legisla- 


256  THE  FEDERALIST. 

live  assembly,  consisting  of  a  hundred  or  two  hundred  members, 
eagerly  bent  on  some  favourite  object,  and  breaking  through  the 
restraints  of  the  constitution  in  pursuit  of  it,  would  be  arrested  in 
their  career,  by  considerations  drawn  from  a  censorial  revision 
of  their  conduct  at  the  future  distance  of  ten,  fifteen,  or  twenty 
years  1  In  the  next  place,  the  abuses  would  often  have  comj)leted 
their  mischievous  eftecls  before  the  remedial  provision  would  be 
applied.  And  in  the  last  place,  where  this  might  not  be  the  case, 
they  would  be  of  long  standing,  would  have  taken  deep  root,  and 
would  not  easily  be  extirpated. 

The  scheme  of  revising  the  constitution,  in  order  to  correct  re- 
cent breaches  of  it,  as  well,  as  for  other  purposes,  has  been  actual- 
ly tried  in  one  of  the  states.  One  of  the  objects  of  the  council  of 
censors  which  met  in  Pennslyvania,  in  1783  and  1784,  was,  as  we 
have  seen,  to  inquire,  "  whether  the  constitution  had  been  violated  ; 
*'  and  whether  the  legislative  and  executive  departments  had  en- 
«'  croached  on  each  other."  This  important  and  novel  experiment 
in  politics  merits,  in  several  points  of  view,  very  particular  atten- 
tion. In  some  of  them  it  may,  perhaps,  as  a  single  experiment, 
made  under  circumstances  somewhat  peculiar,  be  thought  to  be 
not  absolutely  conclusive.  But  as  applied  to  the  case  under  con- 
sideration, it  involves  some  facts  which  I  venture  to  remark,  as  a 
complete  and  satisfactory  illustration  of  the  reasoning  which  I 
have  employed. 

First.  It  appears,  from  the  names  of  the  gentlemen  who  com- 
posed the  council,  that  some,  at  least,  of  its  most  active  and  lead- 
ing members,  had  also  been  active  and  leading  characters  in  the 
parties  which  preexisted  in  the  state. 

Second.  It  appears  that  the  same  active  and  leading  members 
of  the  council,  had  been  active  and  influential  members  of  the 
legislative  and  executive  branches,  within  the  period  to  be  review- 
ed ;  and  even  patrons  or  opponents  of  the  very  measures  to  be 
thus  brought  to  the  test  of  the  constitution.  Two  of  the  members 
had  been  vice-presidents  of  the  state,  and  several  others  members 
of  the  executive  council,  within  the  seven  preceding  years.  One 
of  them  had  been  speaker,  and  a  number  of  others  distinguished 
members  of  the  legislative  assembly,  within  the  same  period. 

Third.  Every  page  of  their  proceedings  witnesses  the  effect  of 
all  these  circumstances  on  the  temper  of  their  deliberations. 
Throughout  the  continuance  of  the  council,  it  was  split  into  two 
fixed  and  violent  parties.  The  fact  is  acknowledged  and  lament- 
ed by  themselves.  Had  this  not  been  the  case,  the  face  of  their 
proceedings  exhibit  a  proof  equally  satisfactory.     In  all  questions, 


THE  FEDERALIST.  257 

however  unimportant  in  themselves,  or  unconnected  with  each 
other,  the  same  names  stand  invariably  contrasted  on  the  opposite 
columns.  Every  unbiased  observer  may  infer,  without  danger  of 
mistake,  and  at  the  same  time  without  meaning  to  reflect  on  either 
party,  or  any  individuals  of  either  party,  that  unfortunately  paS' 
sion,  not  reason,  must  have  presided  over  their  decisions.  When 
men  exercise  their  reason  coolly  and  freely  on  a  variety  of  distinct 
questions,  they  inevitably  fall  into  different  opinions  on  some  of 
them.  When  they  are  governed  by  a  common  passion  their  opin* 
ions  if  they  are  so  to  be  called,  will  be  the  same. 

Fourth.  It  is  at  least  problematical,  whether  the  decision  of  this 
body  do  not,  in  several  instances  misconstrue  the  limits  prescribed 
for  the  legislative  and  executive  departments,  instead  of  reducing 
and  limiting  them  within  their  constitutional  places. 

Fifth.  I  have  never  understood  that  the  decisions  of  the  coun" 
cil  on  constitutional  questions,  whether  rightly  or  erroneously 
formed  have  had  any  effect  in  varying  the  practice  founded  oa 
legislative  constructions.  It  even  appears,  if  I  mistake  not,  that 
in  one  instance,  the  cotemporary  legislature  denied  the  construc- 
tions of  the  council,  and  actually  prevailed  in  the  contest. 

This  censorial  body,  therefore,  proves  at  the  same  time,  by  its 
researches,  the  existence  of  the  disease;  and  by  its  example  the 
inefiicacy  of  the  remedy. 

This  conclusion  cannot  be  invalidated  by  alleging  that  the  state 
in  which  the  experiment  was  made,  was  at  that  crisis,  and  had 
been  for  a  long  time  before,  violently  heated  and  distracted  by  the 
rage  of  party.  Is  it  to  be  presumed,  that  at  any  future  septennial 
epoch,  the  same  state  will  be  free  from  parties  l  Is  it  to  be  pre- 
sumed that  any  other  state,  at  the  same  or  any  other  given  period, 
will  be  exempt  from  them  1  Such  an  event  ought  to  be  neither 
presumed  nor  desired  ;  because  an  extinction  of  parties  necessarily 
implies  either  a  universal  alarm  for  the  public  safety,  or  an  absQ' 
lute  extinction  of  liberty. 

Were  the  precaution  taken  of  excluding  from  the  assemblies 
elected  by  the  people,  to  revise  the  preceding  administration  of 
the  government,  all  persons  who  should  have  been  concerned  ia 
the  government  within  the  given  period,  the  difficulties  would  uot 
be  obviated.  The  important  task  would  probably  devolve  on  men, 
who,  with  inferiour  capacities,  would  in  other  respects  be  little  bet* 
ter  qualified.  Although  they  might  not  have  been  personally  con- 
cerned in  the  administration,  and  therefore  n(rt  immediately  ageqtsi 
in  the  measures  to  be  examined  ;  they  would  probably  have  beetj 
involved  in  the  parties  connected  with  these  measures,  and  hft7§ 
been  elected  under  their  auspices.  PUBliIUSi 

31 


358  THE  FEDERALIST. 

NO.  LI. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued^  with  the  same  Vietc,  and  Concluded. 

To  what  expedient,  then,  shall  we  finally  resort,  for  maintain- 
ing in  practice  the  necessary  partition  of  power  among  the  sever- 
al departments,  as  laid  down  in  the  constitution  ?  The  only  an- 
swer that  can  be  given  is,  that  as  all  these  e.xteriour  provisions  are 
found  to  be  inadequate,  the  defect  must  be  supplied,  by  so  contriv- 
ing the  interiour  structure  of  the  government,  as  that  its  several 
constitaent  parts  may,  by  their  mutual  relations,  be  the  means  of 
keeping  each  other  in  their  proper  places.  Without  presuming  to 
undertake  a  full  developement  of  this  important  idea,  I  will  hazard 
a  few  general  observations,  which  may  perhaps  place  it  in  a  clearer 
light,  and  enable  us  to  form  a  more  correct  judgment  of  the  prin- 
ciples and  structure  of  the  government  planned  by  the  convention. 

In  order  to  lay  a  due  foundation  for  that  separate  and  distinct 
exercise  of  the  different  powers  of  government,  which,  to  a  cer- 
tain extent,  is  admitted  on  all  hands  to  be  essential  to  the  preser- 
vation of  liberty,  it  is  evident  that  each  department  should  have  a 
will  of  its  own  ;  and  consequently  should  be  so  constituted,  that 
the  members  of  each  should  have  as  little  agency  as  possible  in  the 
appointment  of  the  members  of  the  others.  Were  this  principle 
rigorously  adhered  to,  it  would  require  that  all  the  appointments 
for  the  supreme  executive,  legislative,  and  judiciary  magistracies, 
should  be  drawn  from  the  same  fountain  of  authority,  the  people, 
through  channels  having  no  ccmmunication  whatever  with  one 
another.  Perhaps  such  a  plan  of  constructing  tlie  several  depart- 
ments, would  be  less  di  I  cult  i  )  practice,  than  it  may  in  contem- 
plation appear.  Some  difiicultie^,  lio\\ever,  and  some  additional 
expense  would  attend  the  execution  of  it.  Some  deviations,  there- 
fore, from  the  principle  must  be  admitted.  In  the  constitution  of 
the  judiciary  department  in  particular,  it  might  be  inexpedient  to 
insist  rigorously  on  the  principle  ;  first,  because  peculiar  qualifi- 
cations being  essential  in  the  members,  the  primary  consideration 
ought  to  be  to  select  that  mode  of  choice  which  best  secures  these 
qualifications  ;  secondly,  because  the  permanent  tenure  by  which 
the  appointments  are  held  in  that  department,  must  soon  destroy 
all  sense  of  dependence  on  the  authority  conferring  them. 

It  is  equally  evident,  that  the  members  of  each  department 
should  be  as  little  dependent  as  possible  on  those  of  the  others, 
for  the  emoluments  annexed  to  their  or.((  s.  Were  the  ex  cutive 
magistrate,  or  the  judges  not  independent  of  the  legislature  in  this 


THE  FEDERALIST.  S59 

particular,  their  independence  in  every  other  would  be  merely 
nominal. 

But  the  great  security  against  a  gradual  concentration  of  the 
several  powers  in  the  same  department,  consists  in  giving  to  those 
who  administer  each  department,  the  necessary  constitutional 
means,  and  personal  motives,  to  resist  encroachments  of  the  others. 
The  provision  for  defence  must  in  this,  as  in  all  other  cases,  be 
made  commensurate  to  the  danger  of  attack.  Ambition  must  be 
made  to  counteract  ambition.  The  interest  of  the  man  must  be 
connected  with  the  constitutional  rights  of  the  place.  It  may  be  a 
reflection  on  human  nature,  that  such  devices  should  be  necessary 
to  control  the  abuses  of  government.  But  what  is  government 
itself,  but  tlie  greatest  of  all  reflections  on  human  nature  ?  If 
men  were  angels,  no  government  would  be  necessary.  If  angels 
were  to  govern  men,  neither  external  nor  internal  controls  on  gov- 
ernment would  be  necessary.  In  framing  a  government  which  is 
to  be  administered  by  men  over  men,  the  great  difiiculty  lies  in 
this  :  you  must  first  enable  the  government  to  control  the  govern- 
ed ;  and  in  the  next  place  oblige  it  to  control  itself.  A  depen- 
dence on  the  people  is,  no  doubt,  the  primary  control  on  the  gov- 
ernment ;  but  experience  has  taught  mankind  the  necessity  of  aux- 
iliary precautions. 

This  policy  of  supplying,  by  opposite  and  rival  interests,  the  de- 
fect of  better  motives,  might  be  traced  through  the  whole  system 
of  human  afiairs,  private  as  well  as  public.  We  see  it  particular- 
ly displayed  in  all  the  subordinate  distributions  of  power ;  where 
the  constant  aim  is,  to  divide  and  arrange  the  several  ofiices  in 
such  a  manner  as  that  each  may  be  a  check  on  the  other  ;  that 
the  private  interest  of  every  individual  may  be  a  sentinel  over  the 
public  rights.  These  inventions  of  prudence  cannot  be  less  requi- 
site in  the  distribution  of  the  supreme  powers  of  the  state. 

But  it  is  not  possible  to  give  to  each  department  an  equal  pow- 
er of  self-defence.  In  republican  government,  the  legislative  au- 
thority necessarily  predominates.  The  remedy  for  this  inconve- 
niency  is,  to  divide  the  legislature  into  different  branches  ;  and  to 
render  them,  by  different  modes  of  election,  and  different  princi- 
ples of  action,  as  little  connected  with  each  other,  as  the  nature 
of  their  common  functions,  and  their  common  dependence  on  the 
society,  will  admit.  It  may  even  be  necessary  to  guard  against 
dangerous  encroachments  by  still  further  precautions.  As  the 
weight  of  the  legislative  authority  requires  that  it  should  be  thus 
divided,  the  weakness  of  the  executive  may  require,  on  the  other 
hand,  that  it  should  be  fortified.     An  absolute  negative  on  the  leg- 


260  THE  FEDERALIST. 

islnturc,  apponr;:,  at  first  view,  to  be  tlic  natural  defence  with  wliich 
the  execntivr  ni.iiristrate  should  he  armed.  But  perliaps  it  would 
be  neitluT  nltntrptlicr  sfife,  nor  ahme  pudicipiit.  On  oidiuary  oc- 
casi«)fn&lt;,  it  un;iht  not  he  exerted  with  the  recpiisitc  firmness;  and 
on  cxtraordiuarv  occasions,  it  mi^ht  he  pci  fichously  ahuscd.  May 
not  this  defect  of  an  ahHohite  negative  he  supphed  hy  some  quah' 
fied  connexion  hctwcen  tiiis  weaker  department,  and  the  weaker 
branch  of  the  stroiiner  department,  ity  wiiieli  the  latter  may  be 
led  to  stij»port  the  con?titutional  riirhts  of  the  former,  without  be* 
ing  too  much  fietachcd  from  the  rights  of  its  own  de|)artment  ? 
■  If  the  principles  on  which  these  oi)servalions  are  founded  be 
ju9t&gt;  as  I  persuade  myself  they  are,  and  they  he  applied  as  a  cri- 
'terion  to  the  several  stiiic  constitutions,  and  to  tlie  federal  consti- 
tution,  it  will  he  found,  that  if  the  latter  docs  not  perf(;ctly  corres- 
pond with  them,  the  former  are  infinitely  less  able  to  hear  such  a 
&lt;csl:. 

'.  There  are  moreover  two  cf)nsiderations  jiarticuiari}  apijiicahlc 
-to  the  federal  system  of  America,  which  jilace  that  system  in  a 
•very  intercftin^x  point  of  view. 

\First.  In  a  sinjjle  republic,  all  the  power  surrendered  by  the 
people,  is  submitted  to  the  administration  of  a  single  ^rovernment ; 
and  the  usurpali'ius  arc  iruardcd  apjainst,  by  a  division  of  the  gov- 
ernment into  distinct  and  separate  departments.  In  the  compound 
republic  of  America,  the  power  surrendered  by  the  people,  is  first 
divided  between  two  diiitinct  governments,  and  then  the  portion 
nliotted  to  each  sid)di'vidcd  atnon'f  jdislint-t  and  sejiarate  depait- 
.liients'.  Hence  a  doulde  security  arises  to  the  rights  of  the  people. 
&lt;nie  different  governments  will  control  each  other;  at  the  same 
"tiftie  that  each  will  be  controlled  by  itself. 

Second.     It  is  of  great  importance   in  a  republic,  not  oidy   to 
guard  the  society  against  the  oppression  of  its  rulers;  but  to  guard 
one  jiart  of  the  society  against   the   injustice  of  the   other  part. 
-Diflerent  interests   necessarily  exist  in   dilferent   classes  of  citi- 
zens.    If  a  majority  be  united  by  a  common  interest,  the  rights  of 
,th"e  minority  will  be  insecure.     There  are  hut  two  nicihods  of  pro- 
viding against  this  evil;  the  one  by  creating  a  will  in  the  commu- 
jiity  indcpendetit  of  the  majority,  that  is,  of  the  society  itself;  the 
Other,  by  comprehcnditig  in  the  society  so  umny  separate  descrip- 
tions of  citizens,  as  will  reiuJcr  an   unjust  combination   of  a  ma- 
jority of  the  whole   very  improbable,  if  not  impracticable.     The 
,  ^rst  jnethod  prevails  in  oil  governments  possessing  an  hereditary  or 
^elfrapppinted  authority,    -This,  at,  best,  is  but  a  precarious  secu- 
i'ity  ;•  because  a  power  independent  of  the  society  may  as  well  ep- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  261 

pouse  the  nnjiist  views  of  the  major,  as  the  rightful  interests  of  the 
nunor  pnrry.  and  may  possibly  be  turned  asfainst  both  parlies. 
The  second  method  wiil  be  exemplitied  in  the  federal  republic  of 
the  Tnited  States.  Whilst  ail  authoriiy  in  it  will  be  derived  from, 
and  dependent  on  the  society,  the  society  itself  will  be  broken 
into  so  many  parts,  interests,  and  classes  of  citizens,  that  the 
rights  of  individuals,  or  of  the  minority  will  be  in  little  danger 
from  interested  combinations  of  the  majority.  In  a  free  govern- 
ment, the  security  for  civil  rights  must  be  the  same  as  that  for  re- 
ligious rights.  It  consists  in  the  one  case  in  the  multiplicity  of  in- 
terests, and  in  the  other  in  the  multiplicity  of  sects. 

The  degree  of  security  in  both  cases  will  depend  on  tiie  numl^r 
of  interests  and  sects  ;  and  this  may  be  presumed  to  depend  oo 
the  extent  of  country  and  number  of  people  comprehended  under 
the  same  government.  This  view  of  the  subject  must  particularly 
recommend  a  proper  federal  system  to  all  the  sincere  and  consid- 
erate friends  of  republican  government :  since  it  shows,  that  in 
exact  proportion  as  the  territory  of  the  union  may  be  formed  into 
more  circumscribed  confederacies,  or  states,  oppressive  combina- 
tions of  a  majority  will  be  facilitated ;  the  best  security  under  the 
republican  form,  for  the  rights  of  every  class  of  citizens,  will  be 
diminished  :  and.  consequently,  the  stability  and  independence  of 
some  meml&gt;er  of  the  government,  the  only  other  security,  must  be 
proportionally  increased.  Justice  is  the  end  of  government.  It 
is  the  end  of  civil  society.  It  ever  has  been,  and  ever  will  be  pur- 
sued, until  it  be  obtained,  or  until  lil&gt;erty  be  lost  in  the  pursuit.  In 
A  society,  under  the  forms  of  which  the  stronger  faction  can  readi- 
ly unite  and  oppress  tiie  weaker,  anarchy  may  as  truly  be  said  to 
reign,  as  in  a  state  of  nature,  where  the  weaker  individual  is  not 
secured  against  the  violence  of  tiie  stronger  :  and  as  in  tlie  latter 
state,  even  the  stronger  individuals  are  prompted,  by  the  uncer- 
tainty of  tljeir  condition,  to  submit  to  a  government  which  may 
protect  the  weak,  as  well  as  themselves:  so  io  the  former  state, 
will  the  more  powerful  factions  or  parties  be  gradually  induced, 
by  a  like  motive,  to  wisli  for  a  government  which  will  protect  all 
parties,  the  weaker  as  well  as  the  more  powerful.  It  can  be  little 
doubled,  that  if  the  state  ef  Rhode  Island  was  separated  from  the 
confederacy  and  left  to  itself,  the  insecurity  of  rights  under  tbe 
jx»pular  form  of  government  within  such  narrow  limits.  wnuUI  be 
displayed  by  such .  reiterated  oppressions  of  factious  majiiriiies, 
that  some  power  altogether  independent  of  the  i&gt;eopIe,  would  soon 
be  called  for  by  the  voice  of  the  very  factions  whose  misrule  had 
.proved  the  necessity  of  it.     In  the  extended  republic  of  the  Unit- 


262  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ed  States,  and  among  the  great  variety  of  interests,  parties,  and 
sects,  which  it  embraces,  a  coaUtion  of  a  majority  of  the  whole 
society  could  seldom  take  place  upon  any  other  principles  than 
those  of  justice  and  the  general  good  :  whilst  there  being  thus  less 
danger  to  a  minor  from  the  will  of  a  major  party,  there  must  be  less 
pretext  also,  to  provide  for  the  security  of  the  former,  by  introduc- 
ing into  the  government  a  will  not  dependent  on  the  latter  :  or,  in 
other  words,  a  will  independent  of  the  society  itself.  It  is  no  less 
certain  than  it  is  important,  notwithstanding  the  contrary  opinions 
which  have  been  entertained,  that  the  larger  the  society,  provided 
it  lie  within  a  practicable  sphere,  the  more  duly  capable  it  will  be 
of  self-government.  And  happily  for  the  republican  cause,  the  prac- 
ticable sphere  may  be  carried  to  a  very  great  extent,  by  a  judi- 
cious modification  and  mixture  of  the  federal  principle. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LII. 

By  JAMES  MADISON. 

Concerning  the  House  of  Representatives,  with  a  view  to  the  Quali- 
fications of  the  Electors  and  Elected,  and  the  time  of  service  of 
the  Members. 

From  the  more  general  inquiries  pursued  in  the  four  last  papers, 
I  pass  on  to  a  more  particular  examination  of  the  several  parts  of 
the  government.     I  shall  begin  with  the  house  of  representatives. 

The  first  view  to  be  taken  of  this  part  of  the  government,  re- 
lates to  the  qualifications  of  the  electors,  and  the  elected. 

Those  of  the  former  are  to  be  the  same  with  those  of  the  elec- 
tors of  the  most  numerous  branch  of  the  state  legislatures.  The 
definition  of  the  right  of  suft'rage  is  xery  justly  regarded  as  a  fun- 
damental article  of  republican  government.  It  was  incumbent  on 
the  convention,  therefore,  to  define  and  establish  this  right  in  the 
constitution.  To  have  left  it  open  for  the  occasional  regulation  of 
the  congress,  would  have  been  improper  for  the  reason  just  mention- 
ed. To  have  submitted  it  to  the  legislative  discretion  of  the  states, 
would  have  been  improper  for  the  same  reason  ;  and  for  the  ad- 
ditional reason,  that  it  would  have  rendered  too  dependent  on  the 
state  governments,  that  branch  of  the  federal  government  which 
ought  to  be  dependent  on  the  people  alone.  To  have  reduced  the 
different  qualifications  in  the  different  states  to  one  uniform  rule, 
would  probably  have  been  as  dissatisfactory  to  some  of  the  states, 
as  it  would  have  been  difficult  to  the  convention.      The  provision 


THE  FEDERALIST.  263 

made  by  the  convention  appears,  therefore,  to  be  the  best  that  lay 
within  their  option.  It  must  be  satisfactory  to  every  state  ;  because 
it  is  conformable  to  the  standard  already  established,  or  which 
may  be  established  by  the  state  itself.  It  will  be  safe  to  the  Unit- 
ed States;  because,  being  fixed  by  the  state  constitutions,  it  is  not 
alterable  by  the  state  governments,  and  it  cannot  be  feared  that 
the  people  of  the  states  will  alter  this  part  of  their  constitutions, 
in  such  a  manner  as  to  abridge  the  rights  secured  to  them  by  the 
federal  constitution. 

The  qualitications  of  the  elected,  being  less  carefully  and  prop- 
erly defined  by  the  state  constitutions,  and  being  at  the  same  time 
more  susceptible  of  uniformity,  have  been  very  properly  consider- 
ed and  regulated  by  the  convention.  A  reftresentative  of  the  Unit- 
ed States  must  be  of  the  age  of  twenty-five  years  ;  must  have 
been  seven  years  a  citizen  of  the  United  Slates;  must,  at  the  time 
of  his  election,  be  an  inhabitant  of  the  state  he  is  to  represent, 
and,  during  the  time  of  his  service,  must  be  in  no  ofilce  under  the 
United  States.  Under  these  reasonable  limitations,  the  door  of 
this  part  of  the  federal  government  is  open  to  merit  of  every  de- 
scription, whether  native  or  adoptive,  whether  young  or  old,  and 
without  regard  to  poverty  or  wealth,  or  to  any  particular  profes- 
sion of  religious  faith. 

The  term  for  which  the  representatives  are  to  be  elected,  falls 
under  a  second  view  which  may  be  taken  of  this  branch.  In 
order  to  decide  on  the  jiropriety  of  this  article,  two  questions  must 
be  considered  ;  first,  whether  biennial  elections  will,  in  this  case, 
be  safe  ;  secondly,  whether  they  be  necessary  or  useful. 

First.  As  it  is  essential  to  liberty,  that  the  government  in  gen- 
eral should  have  a  common  interest  with  the  people  ;  so  it  is  par- 
ticularly essential,  that  the  branch  of  it  under  consideration  should 
have  an  immediate  dependence  on,  and  an  intimate  sympathy  with, 
the  people.  Frequent  elections  are  unquestionably  the  only  poli- 
cy, by  which  this  dependence  and  sympathy  can  be  effectually  se- 
cured. But  what  particular  degree  of  frequency  may  be  absolute- 
ly necessary  for  the  purpose,  does  not  appear  to  be  susceptible  of 
any  precise  calculation,  and  must  depend  on  a  variety  of  circum- 
stances with  which  it  may  be  connected.  Let  us  consult  experi- 
ence, the  guide  that  ought  always  to  be  followed,  whenever  it  can 
be  found. 

The  scheme  of  representation,  as  a  substitute  for  a  meeting  of 
the  citizens  in  person,  being  at  most  but  very  imperfectly  known 
to  ancient  polity ;  it  is  in  more  modern  times  only,  that  we  are  to 
expect  instructive  examples.     And  even  here,  in  order  to  avoid  a 


264  THE  FEDERALIST. 

research  too  vague  and  difFusive,  it  will  be  proper  to  confine  our- 
selves to  the  few  examples  which  are  best  known,  and  which  bear 
the  greatest  analogy  to  our  particular  case.  The  first  to  which 
this  character  ought  to  be  applied,  is  the  house  of  commons  in 
Great  Britain.  The  history  of  this  branch  of  the  English  consti- 
tution, anteriour  to  the  date  of  Magna  Charta,is  too  obscure  to  yield 
instruction.  The  very  existence  of  it  has  been  made  a  question 
among  political  antiquaries.  The  earliest  records  of  subsequent 
date  prove,  that  parliaments  were  to  sit  only  every  year  ;  not  that 
they  were  to  be  elected  every  year.  And  even  these  annual  ses- 
sions were  left  so  much  at  the  discretion  of  the  monarch,  that  un- 
der various  pretexts,  very  long  and  dangerous  intermissions  were 
often  contrived  by  royal  ambition.  To  remedy  this  grievance,  it 
was  provided  by  a  statute  in  the  reign  of  Charles  II.,  that  the  in- 
termissions should  not  be  protracted  beyond  a  period  of  three 
years.  On  the  accession  of  William  III.,  when  a  revolution  took 
place  in  the  government,  the  subject  was  still  more  seriously  re- 
sumed, and  it  was  declared  to  be  among  the  fundamental  rights  of 
the  people,  that  parliaments  ought  to  be  held  frcqiientiy.  By 
another  statute,  which  passed  a  few  years  later  in  the  same  reign, 
the  term  "  frequently,"  which  had  alluded  to  the  triennial  period 
settled  in  the  time  of  Charles  II.,  is  reduced  to  a  precise  meaning, 
it  being  expressly  enacted,  that  a  new  parliament  shall  be  called 
within  three  years  after  the  determination  of  the  former.  The  last 
change,  from  three  to  seven  years,  is  well  known  to  have  been  in- 
troduced pretty  early  in  the  present  century,  under  an  alarm  for 
the  Hanoverian  succession.  From  tliese  facts  it  appears,  that  the 
greatest  frequency  of  elections  which  has  been  deemed  necessary 
in  that  kingdom,  for  binding  the  representatives  to  their  constitu- 
ents, does  not  exceed  a  triennial  return  of  them.  And  if  we  may 
argue  from  the  degree  of  liberty  retained  even  under  septennial 
elections,  and  all  the  other  vicious  ingredients  in  the  parliamenta- 
ry constitution,  we  cannot  doubt  that  a  reduction  of  the  period 
from  seven  to  three  years,  with  other  necessary  reforms,  would 
so  far  extend  the  influence  of  the  people  over  their  representatives 
as  to  satisfy  us,  that  biennial  elections,  under  the  federal  system, 
cannot  possibly  be  dangerous  to  the  requisite  dependence  of  the 
house  of  representatives  on  their  constituents. 

Elections  in  Ireland,  till  of  late,  were  regulated  entirely  by  the 
discretion  of  the  crown,  and  were  seldom  repeated,  except  on  the 
accession  of  a  new  prince,  or  some  other  contingent  event.  The 
parliament  which  commenced  with  George  II.,  was  continued 
throughout  his  whole  reign,  a  period  of  about  thirty-five  years. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  265 

The  only  dependence  of  the  representatives  on  the  people  consist- 
ed in  the  right  of  the  latter  to  supply  occasional  vacancies,  by  the 
election  of  new  members,  and  in  the  chance  of  some  event  which 
might  produce  a  general  new  election.  The  ability  also  of  the 
Irish  parliament  to  maintain  the  rights  of  their  constituents,  so  far 
as  the  disposition  might  exist,  was  extremely  shackled  by  the  con- 
trol of  the  crown  over  the  subjects  of  their  deliberation.  Of  late, 
these  shackles,  if  I  mistake  not,  have  been  broken  ;  and  octennial 
parliaments  have  besides  been  established.  What  effect  may  be 
produced  by  this  partial  reform,  must  be  left  to  further  experience. 
The  example  of  Ireland,  from  this  view  of  it,  can  throw  but  little 
light  on  the  subject.  As  far  as  we  can  draw  any  conclusion  from 
it,  it  must  be,  that  if  the  people  of  that  country  have  been  able 
under  all  these  disadvantages,  to  retain  any  liberty  whatever,  the 
advantage  of  biennial  elections  would  secure  to  them  every  degree 
of  liberty,  which  might  depend  on  a  due  connexion  between  their 
representatives  and  themselves. 

Let  us  bring  our  inquiries  nearer  home.  The  example  of  these 
states,  when  British  colonies,  claims  particular  attention  ;  at  the 
same  time  that  it  is  so  vvell  known  as  to  require  little  to  be  said  on 
it.  The  principle  of  representation,  in  one  branch  of  the  legisla- 
ture at  least,  was  established  in  all  of  them.  But  the  periods  of 
election  were  different.  They  varied,  from  one  to  seven  years. 
Have  we  any  reason  to  infer,  from  the  spirit  and  conduct  of  the 
representatives  of  the  people,  prior  to  the  revolution,  that  biennial 
elections  would  have  been  dangerous  to  the  public  liberties  ?  The 
spirit  which  everywhere  displayed  itself,  at  the  commencement  of 
the  struggle,  and  which  vanquished  the  obstacles  to  independence, 
is  the  best  of  proofs,  that  a  sufficient  portion  of  liberty  had  been 
everywhere  enjoyed,  to  inspire  both  a  sense  of  its  worth,  and  a  zeal 
for  its  proper  enlargement.  This  remark  holds  good,  as  well  with 
regard  to  the  then  colonies  whose  elections  were  least  frequent,  as 
to  those  whose  elections  were  most  frequent.  Virginia  was  the 
colony  which  stood  first  in  resisting  the  parliamentary  usurpations 
of  Great  Britain  :  it  was  the  first  also  in  espousing,  by  public  act, 
the  resolution  of  independence.  In  Virginia,  nevertheless,  if  I 
have  not  been  misinformed,  elections  under  the  former  government 
were  septennial.  This  particular  example  is  brought  into  view, 
not  as  a  proof  of  any  peculiar  merit,  for  the  priority  in  those  in- 
stances was  probably  accidental ;  and  still  less  of  any  advantage 
in  septennial  elections,  for  when  compared  with  a  greater  frequen- 
cy, they  are  inadmissible  ;  but  merely  as  a  proof,  and  I  conceive  it 
32 


2G6  THE  FEDERALIST. 

to  be  a  very  substantial  proof,  that  the  liberties  of  the  people  can  be 
in  no  danger  from  hiennial  elections. 

The  conclusion  resulting  from  these  examples  will  be  not  a  little 
strengthened,  by  recollecting  three  circumstances.  The  first  is, 
that  the  federal  legislature  will  possess  a  part  only  of  that  supreme 
legislative  authority  which  is  vested  completely  in  the  Britsh  par- 
liament ;  and  which,  with  a  few  exceptions,  was  exercised  by  the 
colonial  assemblies,  and  the  Irish  legislature.  It  is  a  received  and 
well-founded  maxim,  that  where  no  other  circumstances  affect  the 
case,  the  greater  the  power  is,  the  shorter  ought  to  be  its  duration  ; 
and  conversely,  the  smaller  the  power,  the  more  safely  may  its 
duration  be  protracted.  In  the  second  place,  it  has,  on  another 
occasion,  been  shown,  that  the  federal  legislature  will  not  only  be 
restrained  by  its  dependence  on  the  people,  as  other  legislative 
bodies  are  ;  but  that  it  will  be  moreover  watched  and  controlled  by 
the  several  collateral  legislatures,  which  other  legislative  bodies 
are  not.  And  in  the  third  place,  no  comparison  can  be  made  be- 
tween the  means  that  will  be  possessed  by  the  more  permanent 
branches  of  the  federal  government,  for  seducing,  if  they  should 
be  disposed  to  seduce,  the  house  of  representatives  from  their  duty 
to  the  people  ;  and  the  means  of  influence  over  the  popular  branch, 
possessed  by  the  other  branches  of  the  government  above  cited. 
With  less  power,  therefore,  to  abuse,  the  federal  representatives 
can  be  less  tempted  on  one  side,  and  will  be  doubly  watched  on 
the  other.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LIII. 
Bv  JAMES  MADISON. 


The  same  Subject  Conthwed,  with  a  View  of  the  Term  of  Service  of 
the  Members. 

I  SHALL  here,  perhaps,  be  reminded  of  a  current  observation, 
♦'  that  where  annual  elections  end,  tyranny  begins."  If  it  be  true, 
as  has  often  been  remarked,  that  sayings  which  become  prover- 
bial, are  generally  founded  in  reason,  it  is  not  less  true,  that  when 
once  established,  they  are  often  applied  to  cases  to  which  the  rea- 
son of  them  does  not  extend.  I  need  not  look  for  a  proof  beyond 
the  case  before  us.  What  is  the  reason  on  which  this  proverbial 
observation  is  founded  ?  No  man  Mill  subject  himself  to  the  ridi- 
cule of  pretending,  that  any  natural  connexion  subsists  between 
the  sun  or  the  seasons,  and  the  period  within  which  human  virtue 


THE  FEDERALIST.  2G7 

can  bear  the  temptations  of  power.  Happily  for  mankind,  liberty 
is  not,  in  this  respect,  confined  to  any  single  point  of  time  ;  but 
lies  within  extremes,  which  afford  sufficient  latitude  for  all  the 
variations  which  may  be  required  by  the  various  situations  and 
circumstances  of  civil  society. 

The  election  of  magistrates  might  be,  if  it  were  found  expedi- 
ent as  in  some  instances  it  actually  has  been,  daily,  weekly,  or 
monthly,  as  well  as  annual ;  and  if  circumstances  may  require  a 
deviation  from  the  rule  on  one  side,  why  not  also  on  the  other 
side  ?  Turning  our  attention  to  the  periods  established  among 
ourselves,  for  the  election  of  the  most  numerous  branches  of  the 
Btate  legislatures,  we  find  thetn  by  no  means  coinciding  any  more 
in  this  instance,  than  in  the  elections  of  other  civil  magistrates. 
In  Connecticut  and  Rhode  Island,  the  peiiods  are  half-yearly.  In 
the  other  states.  South  Carolina  excepted,  they  are  annual.  In 
South  Carolina  they  are  biennial  ;  as  is  proposed  in  the  federal 
government.  Here  is  a  difference,  as  four  to  one,  between  the 
longest  and  the  shortest  periods  ;  and  yet  it  would  be  not  easy  to 
show,  that  Connecticut  or  Rhode  Island  is  better  governed,  or  en- 
joys a  greater  share  of  rational  liberty,  than  South  Carolina  ;  or 
that  either  the  one  or  the  other  of  these  stales  are  distinguished  in 
these  respects,  and  by  these  causes,  from  the  states  whose  elections 
are  different  from  both. 

In  searching  for  the  grounds  of  this  doctrine,  I  can  discover  but 
one,  and  that  is  wholly  inapplicable  to  our  case.  The  important 
distinction  so  well  understood  in  America,  between  the  constitu- 
tion established  by  the  people,  and  unalterable  by  the  government; 
and  a  law  established  by  the  government,  and  alterable  by  the 
government,  seems  to  have  been  little  understood,  and  less  observ- 
ed in  any  other  country.  Wherever  the  supreme  power  of  legis- 
lation has  resided,  has  been  supposed  to  reside  also  a  full  power 
to  change  the  form  of  the  government.  Even  in  Great  Britain, 
where  the  principles  of  political  and  civil  liberty  have  been  dis- 
cussed, and  where  we  licar  most  of  the  rights  of  the  constitution, 
it  is  maintained,  that  the  authority  of  the  parliament  is  transcend- 
ent and  uncontrolable,  as  well  with  regard  to  the  constitution,  as  the 
ordinary  objects  of  legislative  provision.  They  have,  accordingly, 
in  several  instances,  actually  changed,  by  legislative  acts,  some 
of  the  most  fundamental  articles  of  the  government.  They  have, 
in  particular,  on  several  occasions,  changed  the  period  of  election  ; 
and,  on  the  last  occasion,  not  only  introduced  septennial  in  place 
of  triennial  elections ;  but  by  the  same  act,  continued  themselves 
in  place  four  years  beyond  the  term  for  which  they  were  elected 


268  THE  FEDERALIST. 

by  the  people.  An  attention  to  these  dangerous  practices  has  pro- 
duced a  very  natural  alarm  in  the  votaries  of  free-government,  of 
which  frequency  of  elections  is  the  corner-stone  ;  and  has  led 
them  to  seek  for  some  security  to  liberty  against  the  danger  to 
which  it  is  exposed.  Where  no  constitution,  paramount  to  the 
government,  either  existed  or  could  be  obtained,  no  constitutional 
security,  similar  to  that  established  in  the  United  States,  was  to  be 
attempted.  Some  other  security,  therefore,  was  to  be  sought  for; 
and  what  better  security  would  the  case  admit,  than  that  of  select- 
ing and  appealing  to  some  simple  and  familiar  portion  of  time,  as 
a  standard  for  measuring  the  danger  of  innovations,  for  fixing  the 
national  sentiment,  and  for  uniting  the  patriotic  exertions  7  The 
most  simple  and  familiar  portion  of  time,  applicable  to  the  sub- 
ject was  that  of  a  year;  and  hence  the  doctrine  has  been  incul- 
cated by  a  laudable  zeal  to  erect  some  barrier  against  the  gradu- 
al innovations  of  an  unlimited  government,  that  the  advance  to- 
wards tyranny  was  to  be  calculated  by  the  distance  of  departure 
from  the  fixed  point  of  annual  elections.  But  what  necessity  can 
there  be  of  applying  this  expedient  to  a  government,  limited  as 
the  federal  government  will  be,  by  the  authority  of  a  paramount 
constitution  ?  Or  who  will  pretend  that  the  liberties  of  the  people 
of  America  will  not  be  more  secure  under  biennial  elections,  un- 
alterably fixed  by  such  a  constitution,  than  those  of  any  other  na- 
tion would  be,  where  elections  were  annual,  or  even  more  frequent, 
but  subject  to  alterations  by  the  ordinary  power  of  the  govern- 
ment ? 

The  second  question  stated  is,  whether  biennial  elections  be 
necessary  or  useful  ?  The  propriety  of  answering  this  question  in 
the  affirmative,  will  appear  from  several  very  obvious  considera- 
tions. 

No  man  can  be  a  competent  legislator,  who  does  not  add,  to  an 
upright  intention  and  a  sound  judgment,  a  certain  degree  of 
knowledge  of  the  subjects  on  which  he  is  to  legislate.  A  part  of 
this  knowledge  may  be  acquired  by  means  of  information,  which 
lie  within  the  compass  of  men  in  private,  as  well  as  public  sta- 
tions. Another  part  can  only  be  attained,  or  at  least  thoroughly 
attained,  by  actual  experience  in  the  station  which  requires  the 
use  of  it.  The  period  of  service  ought,  therefore,  in  all  such  cas- 
es, to  bear  some  proportion  to  the  extent  of  practical  knowledge, 
requisite  to  the  due  performance  of  the  service.  The  period  of 
legislative  service  established  in  most  of  the  states  for  the  more 
numerous  branch  is,  as  we  have  seen,  one  year.  The  question 
then  may  be  put  into  this  simple  form :    does  the  period  of  two 


THE  FEDERALIST.  269 

years  bear  no  greater  proportion  to  the  knowledge  requisite  for 
federal  legislation,  than  one  year  does  to  the  knowledge  requisite 
for  state  legislation  ?  The  very  statement  of  the  question,  in  this 
form,  suggests  the  answer  that  ought  to  be  given  to  it. 

In  a  single  state,  the  requisite  knowledge  relates  to  the  existing 
laws,  which  are  uniform  throughout  the  state,  and  with  which  all 
the  citizens  are  more  or  less  conversant  ;  and  to  the  general  af- 
fairs of  the  state,  which  lie  within  a  small  compass,  are  not  very 
diversified,  and  occupy  much  of  the  attention  and  conversation  of 
every  class  of  people.  The  great  theatre  of  the  United  States 
presents  a  very  different  scene.  The  laws  are  so  far  from  being 
uniform,  that  they  vary  in  every  state  ;  whilst  the  public  affairs  of 
the  union  are  spread  throughout  a  very  extensive  region,  and  are 
extremely  diversified  by  the  local  affiiirs  connected  with  them,  and 
can  with  difiiculty  be  correctly  learned  in  any  other  place,  than  in 
the  central  councils,  to  which  a  knowledge  of  them  will  be  brought 
by  the  representatives  of  every  part  of  the  empire.  Yet  some 
knowledge  of  the  afi'airs,  and  even  of  the  laws  of  all  the  states, 
ought  to  be  possessed  by  the  members  from  each  of  the  states. 
How  can  foreign  trade  be  properly  regulated  by  uniform  laws, 
without  some  acquaintance  with  the  commerce,  the  ports,  the 
usages,  and  the  regulations  of  the  different  states  1  How  can  the 
trade  between  the  different  states  be  duly  regulated,  without  some 
knowledge  of  their  relative  situations  in  these  and  other  respects? 
How  can  taxes  be  judiciously  imposed,  and  effectually  collected, 
if  they  be  not  accommodated  to  the  different  laws  and  local  cir- 
cumstances relating  to  these  objects  in  the  different  states  1  How 
can  uniform  regulations  for  the  militia  be  duly  provided,  without 
a  similar  knowledge  of  some  internal  circumstances,  by  which  the 
states  are  distinguished  from  each  other  1  These  are  the  princi- 
pal objects  of  federal  legislation,  and  suggest,  most  forcibly,  the 
extensive  information  which  the  representative  ought  to  acquire. 
The  other  inferiour  objects  will  require  a  proportional  degree  of 
information  with  regard  to  them. 

It  is  true,  that  all  these  difficulties  will,  by  degrees,  be  very 
much  diminished.  The  most  laborious  task  will  be  the  proper  in- 
auguration of  the  government,  and  the  primeval  formation  of  a 
federal  code.  Improvements  on  the  first  draught  will  every  year 
become  both  easier  and  fewer.  Past  transactions  of  the  govern- 
ment will  be  a  ready  and  accurate  source  of  information  to  new 
members.  The  affairs  of  the  union  will  become  more  and  more 
objects  of  curiosity  and  conversation  among  the  citizens  at  large. 
And  the  increased  intercourse  among  those  of  different  states,  will 


270  THE  FEDERALIST. 

contribute  not  a  little  to  diffuse  a  mutual  knowledge  of  their  affairs, 
as  this]again  will  contribute  to  a  general  assinjilation  of  their 
manners  and  laws.  But  with  all  these  abatements,  the  business 
of  federal  legislation  must  continue  so  far  to  exceed,  both  in  nov- 
elty and  difficulty,  the  legislative  business  of  a  single  state,  as  to 
justify  the  longer  period  of  service  assigned  to  those  who  are  to 
transact  it. 

A  branch  of  knowledge,  which  belongs  to  the  acquirements  of  a 
federal  representative,  and  which  has  not  been  mentioned,  is  that 
of  foreign  affairs.  In  regulating  our  own  commerce,  he  ought  to 
be  not  only  acquainted  with  the  treaties  between  tlie  United  States 
and  other  nations,  but  also  with  the  commercial  policy  and  laws 
of  other  nations.  He  ought  not  to  be  altogether  ignorant  of  the 
law  of  nations ;  for  that,  as  far  as  it  is  a  proper  object  of 
municipal  legislation,  is  submitted  to  the  federal  government. 
And  although  the  house  of  representatives  is  not  immediately  to 
participate  in  foreign  negotiations  and  arrangements,  yet  from  the 
necessary  connexion  between  the  several  branches  of  public  af- 
fairs, those  particular  branches  will  frequently  deserve  attention 
in  the  ordinary  course  of  legislation,  and  will  sometimes  demand 
particular  legislative  sanction  and  cooperation.  Some  portion  of 
this  knowledge  may,  no  doubt,  be  acquired  in  a  man's  closet ;  but 
some  of  it  also  can  only  be  derived  from  the  public  sources  of  in- 
formation ;  and  all  of  it  will  be  acquired  to  best  effect,  by  a  prac- 
tical attention  to  the  subject,  during  the  period  of  actual  service 
in  the  legislature. 

There  are  other  considerations,  of  less  importance  perhaps,  but 
which  are  not  unworthy  of  notice.  The  distance  which  many  of 
the  representatives  will  be  obliged  to  travel,  and  the  arrangements 
rendered  necessary  by  that  circumstance,  might  be  much  more 
serious  objections  with  fit  men  to  this  service,  if  limited  to  a  single 
year,  than  if  extended  to  two  years.  No  argument  can  be  drawn 
on  this  sul)ject,  from  the  case  of  the  delegates  to  the  existing  con- 
gress. They  are  elected  annually,  it  is  true  ;  but  their  reelection 
is  considered  by  tlie  legislative  assemblies  almost  as  a  matter  of 
course.  The  election  of  the  representatives  by  the  people  would 
not  be  governed  by  the  same  principle. 

A  few  of  the  members,  as  happens  in  all  such  assemblies,  will 
possess  superiour  talents  ;  will,  by  frequent  reelections,  become 
members  of  long  standing  ;  will  be  thoroughly  masters  of  the  pub- 
lic business,  and,  perhaps,  not  unwilling  to  avail  themselves  of  those 
advantages.  The  greater  the  proportion  of  new  members,  and  the 
Jess  the  information  of  the  bulk  of  the  members,  the  more  apt  will 


THE  FEDERALIST.  271 

they  be  to  fall  into  the  snares  that  may  be  laid  for  them.  This  re- 
mark is  no  less  applicable  to  the  relation  which  will  subsist  be- 
tween the  house  of  representatives  and  the  senate. 

It  is  an  inconvenience  mingled  with  the  advantages  of  our  fre- 
quent elections,  even  in  single  states,  where  they  are  large,  and 
hold  but  one  legislative  session  in  a  year,  that  spurious  elections 
cannot  be  investigated  and  annulled  in  time  for  the  decision  to 
have  its  due  effect.  If  a  return  can  be  obtained,  no  matter  by 
what  unlawful  means,  the  irregular  member,  who  takes  his  seat  of 
course,  is  sure  of  holding  it  a  sufficient  time  to  answer  his  pur- 
poses. Hence,  a  very  pernicious  encouragement  is  given  to  the 
use  of  unlawful  means,  for  obtaining  irregular  returns.  Were 
elections  for  the  federal  legislature  to  be  annual,  this  practice 
misht  become  a  very  serious  abuse,  particularly  in  the  more  dis- 
tant states.  Each  house  is,  as  it  necessarily  must  be,  the  judge  of 
the  elections,  qualifications,  and  returns  of  its  members;  and 
whatever  improvements  may  be  suggested  by  experience,  for  sim- 
plifying and  accelerating  the  process  in  disputed  cases,  so  great  a 
portion  of  a  year  would  unavoidably  elapse,  before  an  illegitimate 
member  could  be  dispossessed  of  his  seat,  that  the  prospect  of 
such  an  event  would  be  little  check  to  unfair  and  illicit  means  of 
obtaining  a  seat. 

All  these  considerations  taken  together,  warrant  us  in  affirming, 
that  biennial  elections  will  be  as  useful  to  the  affairs  of  the  public, 
as  we  have  seen  that  they  will  be  safe  to  the  liberties  of  the  people. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LIV. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 


The  same  Subject  Continued,  with  a  Vieio  to  the  Ratio  of  Repre- 
sentation. 

The  next  view  which  I  shall  take  of  the  house  of  representa- 
tives, relates  to  the  apportionment  of  its  members  to  the  several 
states,  which  is  to  be  determined  by  the  same  rule  with  that  of  di- 
rect taxes. 

It  is  not  contended,  that  the  number  of  people  in  each  state 
ought  not  to  be  the  standard  for  regulating  the  proportion  of  those 
who  are  to  represent  the  people  of  each  state.  The  establishment 
of  the  same  rule  for  the  apportionment  of  taxes,  will  probably  be 
as  little  contested  ;  though  the  rule  itself,  in  this  case,  is  by  no 
means  founded  on  the  same  principle.      In  the  former  case,  the 


272  THE  FEDERALIST. 

rule  is  understood  to  refer  to  the  personal  rights  of  the  people, 
with  which  it  has  a  natural  and  universal  connexion.  In  the  lat- 
ter, it  has  reference  to  the  proportion  of  wealth,  of  which  it  is  in 
no  case  a  precise  measure,  and  in  ordinary  cases  a  very  unfit  one. 
But  notwithstanding  the  imperfection  of  the  rule  as  applied  to  the 
relative  wealth  and  contrihutions  of  the  states,  it  is  evidently  the 
least  exceptionable  among  the  practicable  rules  ;  and  had  too  re- 
cently obtained  the  general  sanction  of  America,  not  to  have  found 
a  ready  prefeience  witii  the  convention. 

All  this  is  admitted,  it  will  perhaps  be  said  :  but  does  it  follow, 
from  an  admission  of  numbers  for  the  measure  of  representation, 
or  of  slaves  combined  with  free  citizens  as  a  ratio  of  taxation, 
that  slaves  ought  to  be  included  in  the  numerical  rule  of  repi'e- 
sentation  1  Slaves  are  considered  as  property,  not  as  persons. 
They  ought,  therefore,  to  be  comprehended  in  estimates  of  taxa- 
tion, which  are  founded  on  property,  and  to  be  excluded  from 
representation,  which  is  regulated  by  a  census  of  persons.  This 
is  the  objection,  as  I  understand  it,  stated  in  its  full  force.  I  shall 
be  equally  candid  in  stating  the  reasoning  which  may  be  offered 
on  the  opposite  side. 

We  subscribe  to  the  doctrine,  might  one  of  our  southern  breth- 
ren observe,  that  representation  relates  more  immediately  to  per- 
sons, and  taxation  more  immediately  to  property  ;  and  we  join  in 
the  application  of  this  distinction  to  the  case  of  our  slaves.  But  we 
must  deny  the  fact,  that  slaves  are  consider-ed  mei-ely  as  property, 
and  in  no  respect  whatever  as  persons.  The  true  state  of  the  case 
is,  that  they  partake  of  both  these  qualities  ;  being  considered  by 
our  laws,  in  some  respects,  as  persons,  and  in  other  respects  as 
property.  In  being  compelled  to  labour,  not  for  himself,  but  for 
a  master ;  in  being  vendible  by  one  master  to  another  master  ; 
and  in  being  subject  at  all  times  to  be  restrained  in  his  liberty, 
and  chastised  in  his  body,  by  the  capricious  will  of  another  ;  the 
slave  may  appear  to  be  degraded  from  the  human  rank,  and  class- 
ed with  those  irrational  animals  which  fall  under  the  legal  denom- 
ination of  pr-operty.  In  being  protected,  on  the  other  hand,  in 
his  life  and  in  his  limbs,  against  the  violence  of  all  others,  even 
the  master  of  his  labour  and  his  liber-ty ;  and  in  being  punishable 
himself  for  all  violence  committed  against  others  ;  the  slave  is  no 
less  evidently  regarded  by  the  law  as  a  member  of  the  society,  not 
as  a  part  of  the  irrational  creation  ;  as  a  moral  person,  not  as  a 
mere  article  of  property.  The  federal  constitution,  therefore,  de- 
cides with  gr-eat  propriety  on  the  case  of  our  slaves,  when  it  views 
them  in  the  mixed  character  of  persons  and  of  property.     This  is 


THE  FEDERALIST.  273 

ia  fact  their  true  character.  It  is  the  character  bestowed  on  them 
by  the  laws  under  which  they  hve  ;  and  it  will  not  be  denied,  that 
these  are  the  proper  criterion  ;  because  it  is  only  under  the  pre- 
text, that  the  laws  have  transformed  the  negroes  into  subjects  of 
property,  tliat  a  place  is  disputed  them  in  the  computation  of  num- 
bers ;  and  it  is  admitted,  that  if  the  laws  were  to  restore  the  rights 
which  have  been  taken  away,  the  negroes  could  no  longer  he  re- 
fused an  equal  share  of  representation  with  the  other  inhabitants. 

This  question  may  be  placed  in  another  light.  It  is  agreed  on 
all  sides,  that  numbers  are  the  best  scale  of  wealth  and  taxation, 
as  they  are  the  only  proper  scale  of  representation.  Would  the 
convention  have  been  impartial  or  consistent,  if  they  had  rejected 
the  slaves  from  the  list  of  inhabitants,  when  the  shares  of  repre- 
sentation were  to  be  calculated  ;  and  inserted  them  on  the  lists 
when  the  tariff  of  contributions  was  to  be  adjusted  1  Could  it  be 
reasonably  expected,  that  the  southern  states  would  concur  in  a 
system,  which  considered  their  slaves  in  some  degree  as  men,  when 
burdens  were  to  be  imposed,  but  refused  to  consider  them  in  the 
same  light,  when  advantages  were  to  be  conferred  1  Might  not 
some  surprise  also  be  ex|)ressecl,  that  those  who  reproach  the  south- 
ern states  with  the  barbarous  policy  of  considering  as  property  a 
part  of  their  human  brethren,  should  themselves  contend,  that  the 
government  to  which  all  the  states  are  to  be  parties,  ought  to  con- 
sider this  unfortunate  race  more  completely  in  the  unnatural  light 
of  property,  than  the  very  laws  of  which  they  complain  1 

It  may  be  replied,  perhaps,  that  slaves  are  not  included  in  the 
estimate  of  representatives  in  any  of  the  states  possessing  thera» 
They  neither  vote  themselves,  nor  increase  the  votes  of  their  mas- 
ters. Upon  what  principle,  then,  ought  they  to  be  taken  into  the 
federal  estimate  of  representation  1  In  rejecting  them  altogether, 
the  constitution  would,  in  this  respect,  have  followed  the  very  laws 
which  have  been  appealed  to,  as  the  proper  guide. 

This  objection  is  repelled  by  a  single  observation.  It  is  a  fun- 
damental principle  of  the  proposed  constitution,  that  as  the  aggre- 
gate number  of  representatives  allotted  to  the  several  states  is  to 
be  determined  by  a  federal  rule,  founded  on  the  aggregate  num- 
ber of  inhabitants  ;  so,  the  riglit  of  choosing  this  allotted  number 
in  each  state,  is  to  be  exercised  by  such  part  of  the  inhabitants, 
as  the  state  itself  may  designate.  The  qualifications  on  which 
the  right  of  suffrage  depend,  are  not  perhaps  the  same  in  any 
two  states.  In  some  of  the  states,  the  difference  is  very  material. 
In  every  state,  a  certain  proportion  of  inhabitants  are  deprived  of 
this  right  by  the  constitution  of  the  state,  who  will  be  included  ia 
33 


374  THE  FEDERALIST. 

the  census  by  which  the  federal  constitution  apportions  the  repre- 
sentatives. In  this  point  of  view,  the  soutliern  states  might  retort 
the  complaint,  by  insisting,  that  the  principle  laid  down  by  the 
convention  required  that  no  regard  should  be  had  to  the  policy  of 
particular  states  towards  their  own  inhabitants  ;  and  consequently, 
that  the  slaves,  as  inhabitants,  should  have  been  admitted  into  the 
census  according  to  their  full  number,  in  like  manner  with  other 
inhabitants,  who,  by  the  policy  of  other  states,  are  not  admitted 
to  all  the  rights  of  citizens.  A  rigorous  adherence,  however  to 
this  principle,  is  waved  by  those  who  would  be  gainers  by  it.  All 
that  they  ask  is,  that  equal  moderation  be  shown  on  the  other  side. 
Let  the  case  of  the  slaves  be  considered,  as  it  is  in  truth,  a  pecu- 
liar one.  Let  the  compromising  expedient  of  the  constitution  be 
mutually  adopted,  which  regards  them  as  inhabitants,  but  as  de- 
based by  servitude  below  the  equal  level  of  free  inhabitants,  which 
regards  the  slave  as  divested  of  two  fifths  of  the  man. 

After  all,  may  not  another  ground  be  taken  on  which  this  article 
of  the  constitution  will  admit  of  a  still  more  ready  defence  1  We 
have  hitherto  proceeded  on  the  idea,  that  representation  related 
to  persons  only,  and  not  at  all  to  property.  But  is  it  a  just  idea? 
Government  is  instituted  no  less  for  protection  of  the  property, 
than  of  the  persons  of  individuals.  The  one,  as  well  as  he  other, 
therefore,  may  be  considered  as  represented  by  those  who  are 
charged  with  the  government.  Upon  this  principle  it  is,  that  in 
several  of  the  states,  and  particularly  in  the  state  of  New  York, 
one  branch  of  the  government  is  intended  more  especially  to  be 
the  guardian  of  property,  and  is  accordingly  elected  by  that  part 
of  the  society  which  is  most  interested  in  this  object  of  govern- 
ment. In  the  federal  constitution,  this  policy  does  not  prevail. 
The  rights  of  property  are  committed  into  tlie  same  hands,  with 
the  personal  rights.  Some  attention  ought,  therefore,  to  be  paid  to 
property,  in  the  choice  of  tliise  hands. 

For  another  reason,  the  votes  allowed  in  the  federal  legislature 
to  the  people  of  each  state,  ought  to  bear  some  proportion  to  the 
comparative  wealth  of  the  states.  States  have  not,  like  individu- 
als, an  influence  over  each  other,  arising  from  superiour  advantages 
of  fortune.  If  the  law  allows  an  opulent  citizen  but  a  single  vote 
in  the  choice  of  his  representative,  tlie  res^pect  and  conse(|uence 
which  he  derives  from  his  fortunate  situation,  \e\y  frequently  guide 
the  votes  of  others  to  the  objects  of  his  choice  ;  and  uirough  this 
imperceptible  channel,  the  rights  of  property  are  conveyed  into 
the  public  representation.  A  state  possesses  no  such  influence 
over  other  states.  It  is  not  probable,  that  the  richest  state  in  the 
confederacy  will  ever  influence  the  choice  of  a  single  representa- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  275 

live,  in  any  other  state.  Nor  will  the  representatives  of  the 
larger  and  richer  states,  possess  any  other  advantage  in  the  federal 
legislature,  over  the  representatives  of  other  states,  than  what  may 
result  from  their  superioiir  number  alone.  As  far,  therefore,  as 
their  superiour  wealth  and  weight  may  justly  entitle  them  to  any 
advantage,  it  ought  to  be  secured  to  them  by  a  superiour  share  of 
representation.  The  new  constitution  is,  in  this  respect,  meterial- 
ly  different  from  the  existing  confederation,  as  well  as  from  that 
of  the  United  Netherlands,  and  other  similar  confederacies.  In 
each  of  the  latter,  the  efficacy  of  the  federal  resolutions  depends 
on  the  subsequent  and  voluntary  resolutions  of  the  states  compos- 
ing the  union.  Hence  the  states,  though  possessing  an  equal  vote 
in  the  public  councils,  have  an  unequal  influence,  corresponding 
with  the  unequal  importance  of  these  subsequent  and  voluntary 
resolutions.  Under  the  proposed  constitution,  the  federal  acts  will 
take  effect  without  the  necessary  intervention  of  the  individual 
states.  They  will  depend  merely  on  the  majority  of  votes  in  the 
federal  legislature,  and  consequently  each  vote,  whether  proceed- 
ing from  a  larger  or  smaller  state,  or  a  state  more  or  less  wealthy  or 
powerful,  will  have  an  equal  weight  and  efficacy  ;  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  the  votes  individually  given  in  a  state  legislature,  by  the  rep- 
resentatives of  unequal  counties  or  other  districts,  have  each  a  pre- 
cise equality  of  value  and  effect ;  or  if  there  be  any  difference  in 
the  case,  it  proceeds  from  the  difference  in  the  personal  character 
«f  the  individual  representative,  rather  than  from  any  regard  to 
the  extent  of  the  district  from  which  he  comes. 

Such  is  the  reasoning  which  an  advocate  for  the  southern  in- 
terests might  employ  on  this  subject:  and  although  it  may  appear 
to  be  a  little  strained  in  some  points,  yet  on  the  whole,  1  must  con- 
fess, that  it  fully  reconeiles  me  to  the  scale  of  representation  which 
the  convention  have  established. 

In  one  respect,  the  establishment  of  a  common  measure  for  rep- 
resentation and  taxation,  will  have  a  very  salutary  effect.  As  the 
accuracy  of  the  census  to  be  obtained  by  the  congress,  will  neces- 
sarily depend,  in  a  considerable  degree,  on  the  disposition,  if  not 
the  cooperation  of  the  states,  it  is  of  great  importance  that  the 
states  should  feel  as  little  bias  as  possible,  to  swell  or  to  reduce  the 
amount  of  their  numbers.  Were  their  share  of  representation 
alone  to  be  governed  by  this  rule,  they  would  have  an  interest  in 
exaggerating  their  inhabitants.  Were  the  rule  to  decide  their 
share  of  taxation  alone,  a  contrary  temptation  would  prevail.  By 
extending  the  rule  to  both  objects,  the  states  will  have  opposite  in- 
terests, which  will  control  and  balance  each  other,  and  produce 
the  requisite  impartiality.  PUBLIUS. 


S7«  THE  FEDERALIST. 

NO.  LV. 

By  JAMES  MADISON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued,  in  Relation  to  the  Total  Number  of  the 

Body. 

The  number,  of  which  the  liotise  of  representatives  is  to  con- 
sist, forms  another,  and  a  very  interesting  point  of  view,  under 
which  this  branch  of  the  federal  legislature  may  be  contemplated. 
Scarce  any  article  indeed  in  the  whole  constitution,  seems  to  be 
rendered  more  worthy  of  attention,  by  the  weight  of  character,  and 
the  apparent  force  of  argument,  with  which  it  has  been  assailed. 

The  charges  exhibited  against  it  are,  first,  that  so  small  a  num- 
ber of  representatives  will  be  an  unsafe  depository  of  the  public 
interests ;  secondly,  that  they  will  not  possess  a  proper  knowledge 
of  the  local  circumstances  of  their  numerous  constituents;  third- 
ly, that  they  will  be  taken  from  that  class  of  citizens  which  will 
Bymphathize  least  with  the  feelings  of  the  mass  of  the  people,  and 
be  most  likely  to  aim  at  a  permanent  elevation  of  the  few,  on  the 
depression  of  the  many  ;  fourthly,  that  defective  as  the  number 
will  be  in  the  first  instance,  it  will  be  more  and  more  dispropor- 
tionate, by  the  increase  of  the  people,  and  the  obstacles  which  will 
prevent  a  correspondent  increase  of  the  representatives. 

In  general  it  may  be  remarked  on  this  subject,  that  no  political 
problem  is  less  susceptible  of  a  precise  solution,  than  that  which 
relates  to  the  number  most  convenient  for  a  representative  legisla- 
ture :  nor  is  there  any  point  on  which  the  policy  of  the  several 
states  is  more  at  variance ;  whether  we  compare  their  legislative 
assemblies  directly  with  each  other,  or  consider  the  proportions 
which  they  respectively  bear  to  the  number  of  their  constituents. 
Passing  over  the  difference  between  the  smallest  and  larger  states, 
as  Delaware,  whose  most  numerous  branch  consists  of  twenty-one 
representatives,  and  Massachusetts,  where  it  amounts  to  between 
three  and  four  hundred ;  a  very  considerable  diff'erence  is  observ- 
able among  states  nearly  equal  in  population.  The  number  of 
representatives  in  Pennsylvania  is  not  more  than  one  fifth  of  that 
in  the  state  last  mentioned.  New  York,  whose  population  is  to 
that  of  South  Carolina  as  six  to  five,  has  little  more  than  one 
third  of  the  number  of  representatives.  As  great  a  disparity  pre- 
vails between  the  states  of  Georgia  and  Delaware  or  Rhode  Island. 
In  Pennsylvania,  the  representatives  do  not  bear  a  greater  propor- 
tion to  their  constituents,  than  of  one  for  every  four  or  five  thou- 
sand. In  Rhode  Island,  they  bear  a  proportion  of  at  least  one  for 
every  iliousand.     And  according  to  the  constitution  of  Georgia, 


THE  FEDERALIST.  277 

the  proportion  may  be  carried  to  one  for  every  ten  electors  ;  and 
must  unavoidably  far  exceed  the  proportion  in  any  of  the  other 
states. 

Another  general  remark  to  be  made  is,  that  the  ratio  between 
the  representatives  and  the  people,  ougiit  not  to  be  the  same, 
where  the  latter  are  very  numerous,  as  where  they  are  very  few. 
Were  the  representatives  in  Virginia  to  be  regulated  by  the  stand- 
ard in  Rhode  Island,  they  would,  at  this  time,  amount  to  between 
four  and  five  hundred  ;  and  twenty  or  thirty  years  hence,  to  a 
thousand.  On  the  other  hand,  the  ratio  of  Pennsylvania,  if  ap- 
plied to  the  state  of  Delaware,  would  reduce  the  representative 
assembly  of  the  latter  to  seven  or  eight  members.  Nothing  can 
be  more  fallacious,  than  to  found  our  political  calculations  on 
arithmetical  principles.  Sixty  or  seventy  men  may  be  more  prop- 
erly trusted  with  a  given  degree  of  power,  than  six  or  seven.  But 
it  does  not  follow,  that  six  or  seven  hundred  would  be  proportion- 
ably  a  better  depository.  And  if  we  carry  on  the  supposition  to 
six  or  seven  thousand,  the  whole  reasoning  ought  to  be  reversed. 
The  truth  is,  that  in  all  cases,  a  certain  number  at  least  seems  to 
be  necessary  to  secure  the  benefits  of  free  consultation  and  discus- 
sion ;  and  to  guard  against  too  easy  a  combination  for  improper 
purposes:  as  on  the  other  hand,  the  number  ought  at  most  to  be 
kept  witiiin  a  certain  limit,  in  order  to  avoid  the  confusion  and  in- 
temperance of  a  multitude.  In  all  very  numerous  assemblies,  of 
whatever  characters  composed,  passion  never  fails  to  wrest  the 
sceptre  from  reason.  Had  every  Athenian  citizen  been  a  Socra- 
tes, every  Athenian  assembly  would  still  have  been  a  mob. 

It  is  necessary  also  to  recollect  here  the  observations  which  were 
applied  to  the  case  of  biennial  elections.  For  the  same  reason 
that  the  limited  powers  of  the  congress,  and  the  control  of  the 
state  legislatures,  justify  less  frequent  elections  than  the  public 
safety  might  otherwise  require  ;  the  members  of  the  congress  need 
be  less  numerous  than  if  they  possessed  the  whole  power  of  legis- 
lation, and  were  under  no  other  than  the  ordinary  restraints  of 
other  legislative  bodies. 

With  these  general  ideas  in  our  minds,  let  us  weigh  the  objec- 
tions which  have  been  stated  against  the  number  of  members  pro- 
posed for  the  house  of  representatives.  It  is  said,  in  the  first 
place,  that  so  small  a  number  cannot  be  safely  trusted  with  so 
much  power. 

The  number  of  which  this  branch  of  the  legislature  is  to  con- 
sist, at  the  outset  of  the  government,  will  be  sixty-five.  Within 
three  years  a  census  is  to  be  taken,  when  the  number  may  be 


278  THE  FEDERALIST. 

augmented  to  one  for  every  thirty  thousand  inhabitants  ;  and 
within  every  successive  period  of  ten  years,  the  census  is  to  be 
renewed,  and  augmentations  may  continue  to  be  made  under  the 
above  limitation.  It  will  not  be  thought  an  extravagant  conjec- 
ture, that  the  first  census  will,  at  the  rate  of  one  for  every  thirty 
thousand,  raise  the  number  of  representatives  to  at  least  one  hun- 
dred. Estimating  the  negroes  in  the  proportion  of  three  fifths,  it 
can  scarcely  be  doubted,  that  the  population  of  the  United  States 
will,  by  that  time,  if  it  does  not  already,  amount  to  three  millions. 
At  the  expiration  of  twenty-five  years,  according  to  the  computed 
rate  of  increase,  the  number  of  representatives  will  amount  to 
two  hundred  ;  and  of  fifty  years,  to  four  hundred.  This  is  a  num- 
ber, which  I  presume  will  put  an  end  to  all  fears  arising  from  the 
smallness  of  the  body.  I  take  for  granted  here,  w  hat  I  shall,  in 
answering  the  fourth  objection,  hereafter  show,  that  the  number 
of  representatives  will  be  augmented,  from  time  to  time,  in  the 
manner  provided  by  the  constitution.  On  a  contrary  supposition, 
I  should  admit  the  objection  to  have  very  great  weight  indeed. 

The  true  question  to  be  decided  then  is,  whether  the  smallness 
of  the  number,  as  a  temporary  regulation,  be  dangerous  to  the 
public  liberty  ?  Whether  sixty-five  members  for  a  few  years,  and 
a  hundred,  or  two  hundred,  for  a  few  more,  be  a  safe  depository 
for  a  limited  and  well-guarded  power  of  legislating  for  the  United 
States?  I  must  own  that  I  could  not  give  a  negative  answer  to 
this  question,  without  first  obliterating  every  impression  which  I 
have  received,  with  regard  to  the  present  genius  of  the  people  of 
America,  the  spirit  which  actuates  the  state  legislatures,  and  the 
principles  which  are  incorporated  with  the  political  character  of 
every  class  of  citizens.  I  am  unable  to  conceive,  that  the  people 
of  America  in  their  present  temper,  or  under  any  circumstances 
which  can  speedily  happen,  will  choose,  and  every  second  year 
repeat  the  choice,  of  sixty-five  or  a  hundred  men,  who  would  be 
disposed  to  form  and  pursue  a  scheme  of  tyranny  or  treachery. 
I  am  unable  to  conceive,  that  the  state  legislatures,  which  must 
feel  so  many  motives  to  watch,  and  which  possess  so  many  means 
of  counteracting  the  federal  legislature,  would  fail  either  to  detect 
or  to  defeat  a  conspiracy  of  the  latter  against  the  liberties  of  their 
common  constituents.  I  am  equally  unable  to  conceive,  tliat  there 
are  at  this  time,  or  can  be  in  any  short  time  in  the  United  States, 
any  sixty-five  or  a  hundred  men,  capable  of  recommending  them- 
selves to  the  choice  of  the  people  at  large,  who  would  either  de- 
sire or  dare,  within  the  short  space  of  two  years,  to  betray  the 
solemn  trust  committed  to  them.     What  change  of  circumstances, 


THE  FEDERALIST.  279 

time,  and  a  fuller  population  of  our  country,  may  produce,  re- 
quires a  prophetic  spirit  to  declare,  -vvliich  makes  no  part  of  my 
pretensions.  But  judging  from  the  circumstances  now  before  us, 
and  from  the  probable  state  of  them  w  ithin  a  moderate  period  of 
time,  I  must  pronounce,  that  the  liberties  of  America  cannot  be 
unsafe,  in  tlie  number  of  hands  pioposed  by  the  federal  constitu- 
tion. 

From  what  quarter  can  the  danger  proceed?  Are  we  afraid  of 
foreign  gold  ?  If  foreign  gold  could  so  easily  corrupt  our  federal 
rulers,  and  enable  them  to  ensnare  and  betray  their  constituents, 
how  has  it  happened  that  we  are  at  this  time  a  free  and  indepen- 
dent nation  ?  The  congress  which  conducted  us  through  the  rev- 
olution, were  a  less  numerous  budy  than  their  successors  will  be  : 
they  were  not  chosen  by,  nor  responsible  to,  their  fellow-citizens 
at  large  ;  ihough  appointed  from  year  to  year,  and  recallable  at 
pleasure,  they  were  generally  continued  for  three  years  ;  and  prior 
to  the  ratification  of  the  federal  articles,  for  a  still  longer  term : 
they  held  their  consultations  always  under  the  veil  of  secrecy  : 
they  had  the  sole  transaction  of  our  affairs  with  foreign  nations  : 
through  the  whole  course  of  the  war,  they  had  the  fate  of  their 
country  more  in  their  hands,  than  it  is  to  be  hoped  will  ever  be  the 
case  with  our  future  representatives;  and  from  the  greatness  of 
the  prize  at  stake,  and  ihe  eagerness  of  the  party  which  lost  it,  it 
may  well  be  supposed,  that  the  use  of  other  means  than  force 
would  not  have  been  scrupled  :  yet  we  know  by  happy  experience, 
that  the  public  trust  was  not  betrayed  ;  nor  has  the  purity  of  our 
public  councils  in  this  particular  ever  suffered,  even  from  the  whis- 
pers of  calumny. 

Is  the  danger  apprehended  from  the  otiier  branches  of  the  fede- 
ral trovernment  1  But  where  are  the  means  to  be  found  by  the 
president,  or  the  senate,  or  both  ?  Their  emoluments  of  office,  it 
is  to  be  presumed,  will  not,  and  without  a  previous  corruption  of 
the  house  of  representatives  cannot,  more  than  suffice  for  \ery 
different  purposes  :  their  private  fortunes,  as  they  must  all  be 
American  citizens,  cannot  possibly  be  sources  of  danger.  The 
only  means  then  which  they  can  possess,  will  be  in  the  dispensa- 
tion of  appointmerr  ..  Is  it  here  that  suspicion  rests  her  charge? 
Sometimes  we  are  told,  that  this  fund  of  corruption  is  to  be  ex- 
hausted by  the  president,  in  subduing  the  virtue  of  the  senate. 
Now,  lhe  fidelity  of  the  other  house  is  to  be  the  victim.  The  im- 
probaoility  of  such  a  mercenary  and  perfidious  combination  of  the 
several  members  of  government,  standing  on  as  different  founda- 
tions as  republican  principles  will  well  admit,  and  at  the  same  time 


280  THE  FEDERALIST. 

accomitable  to  the  society  over  which  they  are  placed,  ought  alone 
to  quiet  this  apprehension.  But  fortunately  the  constitution  has 
provided  a  still  further  safeguard.  The  members  of  the  congress 
are  rendered  ineligible  to  any  civil  offices,  that  may  be  created,  or 
of  which  the  emoluments  may  be  increased,  during  the  term  of 
their  election.  No  offices,  therefore,  can  be  dealt  out  to  the  exist- 
ing members,  but  such  as  may  become  vacant  by  ordinary  casual- 
ties ;  and  to  suppose  that  these  would  he  sufficieiJt  to  purchase  the 
guardians  of  the  people,  selected  by  the  people  themselves,  is  to 
renounce  every  rule  by  which  events  ought  to  be  calculated,  and 
to  substitute  an  indiscriminate  and  unbounded  jealousy,  with  which 
all  reasoning  must  be  vain.  The  sincere  friends  of  liberty,  who 
give  themselves  up  to  the  extravagancies  of  this  passion-r  are  not 
aware  of  the  injury  they  do  their  own  cause.  As  there  is  a  degree 
of  depravity  in  mankind,  which  requires  a  certain  degree  of  cir- 
cumspection and  distrust :  so  there  are  other  qualities  in  human 
nature,  which  justify  a  certain  portion  of  esteem  and  confidence. 
Republican  government  presupposes  the  existence  of  these  quali- 
ties in  a  higher  degree  than  any  other  form.  Were  the  pictures 
which  liave  been  drawn  by  the  political  jealousy  of  some  among 
us,  faithful  likenesses  of  the  human  character,  the  inference  would 
be,  that  there  is  not  sufficient  virtue  among  men  for  self-govern- 
ment;  and  that  nothing  less  than  the  chains  of  despotism  can 
restrain  them  from  destroying  and  devouring  one  another. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LVI. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued,  in  Relation  to  the  same  Point. 

The  second  charge  against  the  house  of  representatives  is,  that 
it  will  be  too  small  to  possess  a  due  knowledge  of  the  interests  of 
its  constituents. 

As  this  objection  evidently  proceeds  from  a  comparison  of  the 
proposed  number  of  representatives,  with  the  great  extent  of  the 
United  States,  the  number  of  their  inhabitants,  and  the  diversity 
of  their  interests,  without  taking  into  view,  at  the  same  lime,  the 
circumstances  which  will  distinguish  the  congress  from  other  leg- 
islative bodies,  the  best  answer  that  can  be  given  to  it  will  be  a 
brief  explanation  of  these  peculiarities. 

It  is  a  sound  and  important  principle,  that  the  representative 
ought  to  be  acquainted  with  the  interests  and  circumstances  of  his 


THE  FEDERALIST.  281 

constituents.  But  this  principle  can  extend  no  farther,  than  to  those 
circumstances  and  interests  to  which  the  authority  and  care  of  the 
representative  relate.  An  ignorance  of  a  variety  of  minute  and 
particular  objects,  which  do  not  lie  within  the  compass  of  legis- 
lation, is  consistent  with  every  attribute  necessary  to  a  due  per- 
formance of  the  legislative  trust.  In  determining  the  extent  of  in- 
formation required  in  the  exercise  of  a  particular  authority,  re- 
course then  must  be  had  to  the  objects  within  the  purview  of  that 
authority. 

What  are  to  be  the  objects  of  federal  legislation  ?  Those  which 
are  of  most  importance,  and  which  seem  most  to  require  local 
knowledge,  are  commerce,  taxation,  and  the  militia. 

A  proper  regulation  of  commerce  requires  much  information, 
as  has  been  elsewhere  remarked  ;  but  as  far  as  this  information  re- 
lates to  the  laws  and  local  situation  of  each  individual  state,  a  very 
few  representatives  would  be  very  sufficient  vehicles  of  it  to  the 
federal  councils. 

Taxation  will  consist,  in  a  great  measure,  of  duties  which  will 
be  involved  in  the  regulation  of  commerce.  So  far  the  preceding 
remark  is  applicable  to  this  object.  As  far  as  it  may  consist  of 
internal  collections,  a  more  diftusive  knowledge  of  the  circum- 
stances of  the  state  may  be  necessary.  But  will  not  this  also  be 
possessed  in  sufficient  degree  by  a  very  few  intelligent  men,  dif- 
fusively elected  within  the  state?  Divide  the  largest  state  into 
ten  or  twelve  districts,  and  it  will  be  found  that  there  will  be  no 
peculiar  local  interest  in  eitlier,  which  will  not  be  within  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  representative  of  the  district.  Besides  this  source  of 
information,  the  lavi^s  of  the  state,  framed  by  representatives  from 
every  part  of  it,  will  be  almost  of  themselves  a  sufficient  guide. 
In  every  state  there  have  been  made,  and  must  continue  to  be 
made,  regulations  on  this  subject,  which  will,  in  many  cases,  leave 
little  more  to  be  done  by  the  federal  legislature,  than  to  review  the 
different  laws,  and  reduce  them  into  one  general  act.  A  skilful 
individual  in  his  closet,  with  all  the  local  codes  before  him,  might 
compile  a  law  on  some  subjects  of  taxation  for  the  whole  union, 
without  any  aid  from  oral  information  ;  and  it  may  be  expected, 
that  whenever  internal  taxes  may  be  necessary,  and  particularly 
in  cases  requiring  uniformity  throughout  the  states,  the  more  sim- 
ple objects  will  be  preferred.  To  be  fully  sensible  of  the  facility 
which  will  be  given  to  this  branch  of  the  federal  legislation,  by 
the  assistance  of  the  state  codes,  we  need  only  suppose  for  a  mo- 
ment, that  this  or  any  other  state  were  divided  into  a  number  of 
parts,  each  having  and  exercising  within  itself  a  power  of  local 
34 


263  THE  FEDERALIST. 

legislation.  Is  it  not  evident  that  a  degree  of  local  information 
and  preparatory  labour,  would  be  found  in  the  several  volumes  of 
their  proceedings  which  would  very  much  shorten  the  labours  of 
the  general  legislature,  and  render  a  much  smaller  number  of 
members  sufficient  for  it  ? 

The  federal  councils  will  derive  great  advantage  from  another 
circumstance.  The  representatives  of  each  state  will  not  only 
bring  with  them  a  considerable  knowledge  of  its  laws,  and  a  local 
knowledge  of  their  respective  districts ;  but  will  probably  in  all 
cases  have  been  members,  and  may  even  at  the  very  time  be  mem- 
bers of  the  state  legislature,  where  all  the  local  information  and 
interests  of  the  state  are  assembled,  and  from  whence  they  may 
easily  be  conveyed  by  a  very  few  hands  into  the  legislature  of  the 
United  States. 

With  regard  to  the  regulation  of  the  militia,  there  are  scarcely 
any  circumstances  in  reference  to  which  local  knowledge  can  be 
said  to  be  necessary.  The  general  face  of  the  country,  whether 
mountainous  or  level,  most  fit  for  the  operations  of  infantry  or 
cavalry,  is  almost  the  only  consideration  of  this  nature  that  can 
occur.  The  art  of  war  teaches  general  principles  of  organiza- 
tion, movement,  and  discipline,  which  apply  universally. 

The  attentive  reader  will  discern  that  the  reasoning  here  used, 
to  prove  the  sufficiency  of  a  moderate  number  of  representatives, 
does  not,  in  any  respect,  contradict  what  was  urged  on  another 
occasion,  with  regard  to  the  extensive  information  which  the  rep- 
resentatives ought  to  possess,  and  the  time  that  might  be  necessary 
for  acquiring  it.  This  information,  so  far  as  it  may  relate  to  local 
objects,  is  rendered  necessary  and  difficult,  not  by  a  difference  of 
laws  and  local  circumstances  within  a  single  state,  but  of  those 
among  different  states.  Taking  each  state  by  itself,  its  laws  are 
the  same,  and  its  interests  but  little  diversified.  A  few  men,  there- 
fore, will  possess  all  the  knowledge  requisite  for  a  proper  repre- 
sentation of  them.  Were  the  interests  and  affairs  of  each  indi- 
vidual state  perfectly  simple  and  uniform,  a  knowledge  of  them 
in  one  part  would  involve  a  knowledge  of  them  in  every  other,  and 
the  whole  state  might  be  competently  represented  by  a  single 
member  taken  from  any  part  of  it.  On  a  comparison  of  the  dif- 
ferent states  together,  we  find  a  great  dissimilarity  in  their  laws, 
and  in  many  other  circumstances  connected  with  the  objects  of 
federal  legislation,  with  all  of  which  the  federal  representatives 
ought  to  have  some  acquaintance.  Whilst  a  (ew  representatives, 
therefore,  from  each  state,  may  bring  with  them  a  due  knowledge 
of  their  own  state,  every  representative  will  have  much  information 


THE  FEDERALIST.  283 

to  acquire  concerning  all  the  other  states.  The  changes  of  time, 
as  was  formerly  remarked,  on  the  comparative  situation  of  the  dif- 
ferent states,  will  have  an  assimilating  effect.  The  effect  of  time 
on  the  internal  affairs  of  the  states,  taken  singly,  will  be  just  the 
contrary.  At  present,  some  of  the  states  are  little  more  than  a 
society  of  husbandmen.  Few  of  them  have  made  much  progress 
in  those  branches  of  industry,  which  give  a  variety  and  complexity 
to  the  affairs  of  a  nation.  These,  however,  will  in  all  of  them  be 
the  fruits  of  a  more  advanced  population ;  and  will  require,  on 
the  part  of  each  state,  a  fuller  representation.  The  foresight  of 
the  convention  has  accordingly  taken  care,  that  the  progress  of 
population  may  be  accompanied  with  a  proper  increase  of  the 
represetitative  branch  of  the  government. 

The  experience  of  Great  Britain,  which  presents  to  mankind  so 
many  political  lessons,  both  of  the  monitory  and  exemplary  kind, 
and  which  has  been  frequently  consulted  in  the  course  of  these 
inquiries,  corroborates  the  result  of  the  reflections  which  we  have 
just  made.  The  number  of  inhabitants  in  the  two  kingdoms  of 
England  and  Scotland,  cannot  be  stated  at  less  than  eight  millions. 
The  representatives  of  these  eight  millions  in  the  house  of  com- 
mons, amount  to  five  hundred  and  fifty-eight.  Of  this  number, 
one  ninth  are  elected  by  three  hundred  and  sixty-four  persons,  and 
one  half,  by  five  thousand  seven  hundred  and  twenty-three  per- 
sons.* It  cannot  be  supposed  that  the  half  thus  elected,  and  who 
do  not  even  reside  among  the  people  at  large,  can  add  any  thing 
either  to  the  security  of  the  people  against  the  government,  or  to 
the  knowledge  of  their  circumstances  and  interests  in  the  legisla- 
tive councils.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  notorious,  that  they  are  more 
frequently  the  representatives  and  instruments  of  the  executive 
magistrate,  than  the  guardians  and  advocates  of  the  popular  rights. 
They  might,  therefore,  with  great  propriety,  be  considered  as 
something  more  than  a  mere  deduction  from  the  real  representa- 
tives of  the  nation.  We  will,  however,  consider  them  in  this  light 
alone,  and  will  not  extend  the  deduction  to  a  considerable  number 
of  others,  who  do  not  reside  among  their  constituents,  are  very 
faintly  connected  with  them,  and  have  very  little  particular  knowl- 
edge of  their  affairs.  With  all  these  concessions,  two  hundred 
and  seventy-nine  persons  only,  will  be  the  depository  of  the  safe- 
ty, interest,  and  happiness  of  eight  millions  ;  that  is  to  say,  there 
will  be  one  representative  only,  to  maintain  the  rights,  and  explain 
the  situation,  of  twenty-eight  thousand  six  hundred  and  seventy  con- 
stituents, in  an  assembly  exposed  to  the  whole  force  of  executive 

*  Bufgh's  Political  Disquisitions. 


284  THE  FEDERALIST. 

influence,  and  extending  its  authority  to  every  object  of  legislation 
within  a  nation  whose  affairs  are  in  the  hisrhest  degree  diversified 
and  complicated.  Yet  it  is  very  certain,  not  only  that  a  valuable 
portion  of  freedom  has  been  preserved  under  all  these  circum- 
stances, but  that  the  defects  in  the  British  code  are  chargeable,  in 
a  very  small  proportion,  on  the  ignorance  of  the  legislature  con- 
cerning the  circumstances  of  the  people.  Allowing  to  this  case 
the  weight  which  is  due  to  it,  and  comparing  it  with  that  of  the 
house  of  representatives  as  above  explained,  it  seems  to  give  the 
fullest  assurance,  that  a  representative  for  every  thirty  thousand 
inhabitants,  will  render  the  latter  both  a  safe  and  competent  guar- 
dian of  the  interests  which  will  be  confided  to  it.       PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LVII. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 


The  same  Subject  Continued,  in  relation  to  the  supposed  tendency  of 
the  Plan  of  the  Convention  to  elevate  the  Few  above  the  3Iany. 

The  third  charge  against  the  house  of  representatives  is,  that 
it  will  be  taken  from  that  class  of  citizens  which  will  have  least 
sympathy  with  the  mass  of  the  people  ;  and  be  most  likely  to  aim 
at  an  ambitious  sacrifice  of  the  many,  to  the  aggrandizement  of 
the  few. 

Of  all  the  objections  which  have  been  framed  against  the  fede- 
ral constitution,  this  is,  perhaps,  the  most  extraordinary.  Whilst 
the  objection  itself  is  levelled  against  a  pretended  oligarchy,  the 
principle  of  it  strikes  at  the  very  root  of  republican  government. 

The  aim  of  every  political  constitution  is,  or  ought  to  be,  first, 
to  obtain  for  rulers  men  who  possess  most  wisdom  to  discern,  and 
most  virtue  to  pursue,  the  common  good  of  the  society;  and,  in 
the  next  place,  to  take  the  most  eflectual  precautions  for  keeping 
them  virtuous,  whilst  they  continue  to  hold  their  public  trust.  The 
elective  mode  of  obtaining  rulers,  is  the  characteristic  policy  of 
republican  government.  The  means  relied  on  in  this  form  of  gov- 
ernment for  preventing  their  degeneracy,  are  numerous  and  vari- 
ous. The  most  effectual  one,  is  such  a  limitation  of  the  term  of 
appointments,  as  will  maintain  a  proper  responsibility  to  the  peo- 
ple. 

Let  me  now  ask,  what  circumstance  there  is  in  the  constitution 
of  the  house  of  representatives,  that  violates  the  principles  of  re- 
publican government ;  or  favours  the  elevation  of  the  few,  on  the 


THE  FEDERALIST.  285 

ruins  of  the  many  1  Let  me  ask,  wliether  every  circumstance  is 
not,  on  the  contrary,  strictly  conformable  to  these  principles  ;  and 
scrupulously  imj)artial  to  the  rights  and  pretensions  of  every  class 
and  description  of  citizens  ? 

Who  are  to  be  the  electors  of  the  federal  representatives  ?  Not 
the  rich,  more  than  the  poor  ;  not  the  learned,  more  than  the  io-no- 
rant ;  not  the  haughty  heirs  of  distinguished  names,  more  than  the 
humble  sons  of  obscurity  and  unpropitious  fortune.  The  electors 
are  to  be  the  great  body  of  the  people  of  the  United  States.  They 
are  to  be  the  same  who  exercise  the  right  in  every  state  of  elect- 
ing the  correspondent  branch  of  the  legislature  of  the  state. 

Who  are  to  be  the  objects  of  popular  choice  ?  Every  citizen 
whose  merit  may  recommend  him  to  the  esteem  and  confidence  of 
his  country.  No  qualification  of  wealth,  or  biith,  or  religious 
faith,  or  of  civil  profession,  is  permitted  to  fetter  the  judgment  or 
disappoint  the  inclination  of  the  people. 

If  we  consider  the  situation  of  the  men  on  whom  the  free  suf- 
frages of  their  fellow-citizens  may  confer  the  representative  trust, 
\ve  shall  find  it  involving  every  security  which  can  be  devised  or 
desired  for  their  fidelity  to  their  constituents. 

In  the  first  place,  as  they  will  have  been  distinguished  by  the 
preference  of  their  fellow-citizens,  we  are  to  presume,  that  in  gen- 
eral they  will  be  somewhat  distinguished  also  by  these  qualities 
which  entitle  them  to  it,  and  which  promise  a  sincere  and  scrupu- 
lous regard  to  the  nature  of  their  engagements. 

In  the  second  place,  they  will  enter  into  the  public  service  under 
circumstances  which  cannot  fail  to  produce  a  temporary  afiection 
at  least  to  their  constituents.  There  is  in  every  breast  a  sensibil- 
ity to  marks  of  honour,  of  favour,  of  esteem,  and  of  confidence, 
which,  apart  from  all  considerations  of  interest,  is  some  pledge 
for  grateful  and  benevolent  returns.  Ingratitude  is  a  common 
topic  of  declamation  against  human  nature  ;  and  it  must  be  con- 
fessed, that  instances  of  it  are  but  too  frequent  and  flagrant,  both 
in  public  and  in  private  life.  But  the  universal  and  extreme  indig- 
nation which  it  inspires,  is  itself  a  proof  of  the  energy  and  preva- 
lence of  the  contrary  sentiment. 

In  the  third  place,  those  ties  which  bind  the  representative  to 
his  constituents,  are  strengthened  by  motives  of  a  more  selfish  na- 
ture. His  pride  and  vanity  attach  him  to  a  form  of  government 
which  favours  his  pretensions,  and  gives  him  a  share  in  its  honours 
and  distinctions.  Whatever  hopes  or  projects  might  be  entertain- 
ed by  a  few  aspiring  characters,  it  must  generally  happen,  that  a 
great  proportion  of  the  men  deriving  their  advancement  from  their 


286  THE  FEDERALIST. 

influence  with  the  people,  would  have  more  to  hope  from  a  preser- 
vation of  their  favour,  than  from  innovations  in  the  government 
subversive  of  the  authority  of  the  people. 

All  these  securities,  however,  would  be  found  very  insufficient 
without  the  restraint  of  frequent  elections.  Hence,  in  the  fourth 
place,  the  house  of  representatives  is  so  constituted,  as  to  support 
in  the  members  an  habitual  recollection  of  their  dependence  on 
the  people.  Before  the  sentiments  impressed  on  their  minds  by 
the  mode  of  their  elevation  can  be  effaced  by  the  exercise  of  pow- 
er, they  will  be  compelled  to  anticipate  the  moment  when  their 
power  is  to  cease,  when  their  exercise  of  it  is  to  be  reviewed,  and 
when  they  must  descend  to  the  level  from  which  they  were  raised  ; 
there  for  ever  to  remain,  unless  a  faithful  discharge  of  their  trust 
shall  have  established  their  title  to  a  renewal  of  it. 

I  will  add,  as  a  fifth  circumstance  in  the  situation  of  the  house 
of  representatives,  restraining  them  from  oppressive  measures, 
that  they  can  make  no  law  which  will  not  have  its  full  operation 
on  themselves  and  their  friends,  as  well  as  on  the  great  mass  of  the 
society.  This  has  always  been  deemed  one  of  the  strongest  bonds 
by  which  human  policy  can  connect  the  rulers  and  the  people  to- 
gether. It  creates  between  them  that  communion  of  interest,  and 
sympathy  of  sentiments,  of  which  few  governments  have  furnish- 
ed examples  ;  but  without  which  every  government  degenerates 
into  tyranny.  If  it  be  asked,  what  is  to  restrain  the  house  of  rep- 
resentatives from  making  legal  discriminations  in  favour  of  them- 
selves, and  a  particular  class  of  the  society  ;  I  answer,  the  genius 
of  the  whole  system;  tlie  nature  of  just  and  constitutional  laws; 
and,  above  all,  the  vigilant  and  manly  spirit  which  actuates  the 
people  of  America  ;  a  spirit  which  nourishes  freedom,  and  in  re- 
turn is  nourished  by  it. 

If  this  spirit  shall  ever  be  so  far  debased,  as  to  tolerate  a  law 
not  obligatory  on  the  legislature,  as  well  as  on  the  people,  the  peo- 
ple will  be  prepared  to  tolerate  any  thing  but  liberty. 

Such  will  be  the  relation  between  the  house  of  representatives 
and  their  constituents.  Duty,  gratitude,  interest,  ambition  itself, 
are  the  chords  by  which  they  will  be  bound  to  fidelity  and  sympa- 
thy with  the  great  mass  of  the  people.  It  is  possible  that  these 
may  all  be  insufficient  to  control  the  caprice  and  wickedness  of 
men.  But  are  they  not  all  that  government  will  admit,  and  that 
human  prudence  can  devise  1  Are  they  not  the  genuine  and  the 
characteristic  means,  by  wliich  republican  government  provides 
for  the  liberty  and  happiness  of  the  people  1  Are  they  not  the 
identical  means  on  which  every  state  government  in  the  union 


THE  FEDERALIST.  287 

relies  for  the  attainment  of  these  important  ends  ?  What  then 
are  we  to  understand  by  the  objection  which  this  paper  has  com- 
bated 1  What  are  we  to  say  to  tlie  men  who  profess  the  most 
flaming  zeal  for  repubUcan  government,  yet  boldly  impeach  the 
fundamental  principle  of  it ;  who  pretend  to  be  champions  for  the 
right  and  the  capacity  of  the  people  to  choose  their  own  rulers, 
yet  maintain  that  they  will  prefer  those  only  who  will  immediately 
and  infallibly  betray  the  trust  committed  to  them  1 

Were  the  objection  to  be  read  by  one  who  had  not  seen  the 
mode  prescribed  by  the  constitution  for  the  choice  of  representa- 
tives, he  could  suppose  nothing  less,  than  that  some  unreasonable 
qualification  of  property  was  annexed  to  the  right  of  suffrage  ;  or 
that  the  right  of  eligibility  was  limited  to  persons  of  particular 
families  or  fortunes  ;  or  at  least  that  the  mode  prescribed  by  the 
state  constitutions  was  in  some  respect  or  other,  very  grossly  de- 
parted from.  We  have  seen,  how  far  such  a  supposition  would 
err,  as  to  the  two  first  points.  Nor  would  it,  in  fact,  be  less  erro- 
neous as  to  the  last.  The  only  difference  discoverable  between 
the  two  cases  is,  that  each  representative  of  the  United  States  will 
be  elected  by  five  or  six  thousand  citizens  ;  whilst  in  the  individual 
states,  the  election  of  a  representative  is  left  to  about  as  many  hun- 
dred. Will  it  be  pretended,  that  this  difference  is  sufiicient  to 
justify  an  attachment  to  the  state  governments,  and  an  abhorrence 
to  the  federal  government]  If  this  be  the  point  on  which  the  ob- 
jection turns,  it  deserves  to  be  examined. 

Is  it  supported  by  reason  1  This  cannot  be  said,  without  main- 
taining that  five  or  six  thousand  citizens  are  less  capable  of  choos- 
ing a  fit  representative,  or  more  liable  to  be  corrupted  by  an  unfit 
one,  than  five  or  six  hundred.  Reason,  on  the  contrary,  ass&lt;ires 
us,  that  as  in  so  great  a  nun)ber,  a  fit  representative  would  be  most 
likely  to  be  found  ;  so  the  choice  would  be  less  likely  to  be  diverted 
from  him,  by  the  intrigues  of  the  ambitious  or  the  bribes  of  the 
rich. 

Is  the  consequence  from  this  doctrine  admissible  ?  If  we  say  that 
five  or  six  hundred  citizens  are  as  many  as  can  jointly  exercise 
their  right  of  suffrage,  must  we  not  deprive  the  people  of  the  im- 
mediate choice  of  their  public  servants,  in  every  instance,  where 
the  administration  of  the  government  does  not  require  as  many  of 
them  as  will  amount  to  one  for  that  number  of  citizens  ? 

Is  the  doctrine  warranted  by  facts  1  It  was  shown  in  the  last 
paper,  that  the  real  representation  in  the  British  house  of  com- 
mons very  little  exceeds  the  proportion  of  one  for  every  thirty 
thousand  inhabitants.     Besides  a  variety  of  powerful  causes,  not 


288  THE  FEDERALIST. 

existing  here,  and  which  favour  in  that  country  the  pretensions  of 
rank  and  wealth,  no  person  is  eligible  as  a  representative  of  a 
county,  unless  he  possess  real  estate  of  the  clear  value  of  six  hun- 
dred pounds  sterling  per  year;  nor  of  a  city  or  borough,  unless 
he  possess  a  like  estate  of  half  that  annual  value.  To  this  quali- 
fication, on  the  part  of  the  county  representatives,  is  added  anoth- 
er on  the  part  of  the  county  electors,  which  restrains  the  right  of 
suffrage  to  persons  having  a  freehold  estate  of  the  annual  value  of 
more  than  twenty  pounds  Stirling,  according  to  the  present  rate  of 
money.  Notwithstanding  these  unfavourable  circumstances,  and 
notwithstanding  some  very  unequal  laws  in  the  British  code,  it 
cannot  be  said,  that  the  representatives  of  the  nation  have  elevated 
the  few  on  the  ruins  of  the  many. 

But  we  need  not  resort  to  foreign  experience  on  this  subject. 
Our  own  is  explicit  and  decisive.  The  districts  in  New  Hamp- 
shire, in  which  the  senators  are  chosen  immediately  by  the  people, 
are  nearly  as  large  as  will  be  necessary  for  her  representatives  in 
the  congress.  Those  of  Massachusetts  are  larger  than  will  be 
necessary  for  that  purpose ;  and  those  of  New  York  still  more  so. 
In  the  last  state,  the  members  of  assembly,  for  the  cities  and  coun- 
ties of  New  York  and  Albany,  are  elected  by  very  nearly  as  many 
voters  as  will  be  entitled  to  a  representative  in  the  congress,  calcu- 
lating on  the  number  of  sixty-five  representatives  only.  It  makes 
no  difference,  that  in  these  senatorial  districts  and  counties,  a 
number  of  representatives  are  voted  for  by  each  elector  at  the 
same  time.  If  the  same  electors,  at  the  same  time,  are  capable 
of  choosing  four  or  five  representatives,  they  cannot  be  incapable 
of  choosing  one.  Pennsylvania  is  an  additional  example.  Some 
of  her  counties,  which  elect  her  state  representatives,  are  almost 
as  large  as  her  districts  will  be  by  which  her  federal  representa- 
tives will  be  elected.  The  city  of  Philadelphia  is  supposed  to  con- 
tain between  fifty  and  sixty  thousand  souls.  It  will,  therefore, 
form  nearly  two  districts  for  the  choice  of  federal  representatives. 
Ii  forms,  however,  but  one  county,  in  which  every  elector  votes 
for  each  of  its  representatives  in  the  state  legislature.  And  what 
may  appear  to  be  still  more  directly  to  our  purpose,  the  whole 
city  actually  elects  a  single  member  for  the  executive  council.  This 
is  the  case  in  all  the  other  counties  of  the  state. 

Are  not  these  facts  the  most  satisfactory  proofs  of  the  fallacy 
which  has  been  employed  against  the  branch  of  the  federal  gov- 
ernment under  consideration  ?  Has  it  appeared  on  trial,  that  the 
senators  of  New  Hampshire,  Massachusetts,  and  New  York ;  or  the 
executive  council  of  Pennsylvania ;  or  the  members  of  the  assem- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  289 

blj  in  the  two  last  states,  have  betrayed  any  peculiar  disposition 
to  sacrifice  the  many  to  the  few ;  or  are  in  any  respect  less  worthy 
of  their  places,  than  the  rppresf-ntativrs  and  magistrates  appointed 
in  otht-r  states,  hy  very  small  divisions  of  the  people  ] 

But  there  are  cases  of  a  stronger  complexion  than  any  which  I 
have  yet  quoted.  One  hranch  of  the  legislature  of  Connecticut  is 
so  constituted,  that  each  member  of  it  is  elected  by  the  whole 
state.  So  is  the  governour  of  that  state,  of  Massachusets,  and  of 
this  state,  and  the  president  of  New  Hampshire.  I  leave  every 
man  to  decide,  whether  the  result  of  any  one  of  these  experiments 
can  bi  said  to  countenance  a  suspicion,  that  a  diffusive  mode  of 
choosing  representatives  of  the  people  tends  to  elevate  traitors, 
and  to  undermine  the  public  liberty.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LVHL 

By  JAMES  MADISON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued,  in  Relation  to  the  future  Augmentation 
of  the  Members. 
The  remaining  charge  against  the  house  of  representatives,which 
I  am  to  examine,  is  grounded  on  a  supposition  that  the  number  of 
members  will  not  be  augmented  from  time  to  time,  as  the  progress 
of  population  may  demand. 

It  has  been  admitted  that  this  objection,  if  well  supported,  would 
have  great  weight.  The  following  observations  will  show,  that 
like  most  other  objections  against  the  constitution,  it  can  only  pro- 
ceed from  a  partial  view  of  the  subject ;  or  from  a  jealousy  which 
discolours  and  disfigures  every  object  which  is  beheld. 

1.  Those  who  urge  the  objection  seem  not  to  have  recollected, 
that  the  federal  constitution  will  not  sufl^er  by  a  comparison  with 
the  state  constitutions,  in  the  security  provided  for  a  gradual  aug- 
mentation of  the  number  of  representatives.  The  number  which 
is  to  prevail  in  the  first  instance,  is  declared  to  be  temporary.  Its 
duration  is  limited  to  the  short  term  of  three  years. 

"Within  every  successive  term  of  ten  years,  a  census  of  inhabit- 
ants is  to  be  repeated.  The  unequivocal  objects  of  these  regula- 
tions are,  first  to  readjust,  from  time  to  time,  the  apportionment  of 
representatives  to  the  number  of  inhabitants  ;  under  the  single  ex- 
ception, that  each  state  shall  have  one  representative  at  least: 
secondly,  to  augment  the  number  of  representatives  at  the  same 
periods ;  under  the  sole  limitation,  that  the  whole  number  shall  not 
85 


^m  THE  FEDERALIST. 

exceed  one  for  every  thirty  thousand  inhabitants.  If  we  review 
the  constitutions  of  the  spvpral  statfs,  vi^e  shall  find  that  some  of 
them  contain  no  ditfrminate  regulations  on  this  subject;  that 
others  correspond  pretty  much  on  this  point  with  the  federal  con- 
stitution ;  and  that  the  most  eftVctual  security  in  any  of  tlieni  is 
resolvable  into  a  mere  directory  provision. 

2.  As  far  as  experience  has  taken  place  on  this  subject,  a  grad- 
ual increase  of  representatives  under  the  state  constitutions,  has 
at  least  kept  pace  with  that  of  the  constituents  ;  and  it  appears 
that  the  former  have  been  as  ready  to  concur  in  such  measures  as 
the  latter  have  been  to  call  for  them. 

3.  There  is  a  peculiarity  in  the  federal  constitution,  which  en- 
sures a  watchful  attention  in  a  majority  both  of  the  people  and  of 
their  respresentatives,  to  a  constitutional  augmentation  of  the  lat- 
ter. The  peculiarity  lies  in  this,  that  one  branch  of  the  legis- 
lature is  a  representation  of  citizens  ;  the  other  of  the  states:  in 
the  former,  consequently,  the  larger  states  will  have  most  weight ; 
in  the  latter  the  advantage  will  be  in  favour  of  the  smaller  states. 
From  this  circumstance  it  may  with  certainty  be  infcrn  d,  that  the 
larger  states  will  be  strenuous  advocates  for  increasing  the  number 
and  weight  of  that  part  of  the  legislature,  in  which  their  influence 
predominates.  And  it  so  happens,  that  four  only  of  the  largest 
will  have  a  majority  of  the  whole  votes  in  tlie  house  of  represent 
tatives.  Should  the  representatives  or  people,  therefore,  of  the 
smaller  states,  oppose  at  any  time  a  reasonable  addition  of  mem- 
bers, a  coalition  of  a  very  few  states  will  be  sufficient  to  overrule 
the  opposition;  a  coalition,  which,  notwithstanding  the  rivalship 
and  local  prejudices  which  might  prevent  it  on  ordinary  occasions, 
would  not  fail  to  take  place,  when  not  merely  prompted  by  com- 
mon interest,  but  justified  by  equity  and  the  principles  of  the  con- 
stitution. 

It  may  be  alleged,  perhaps,  that  the  senate  would  be  prompted 
by  like  motives  to  an  adverse  coalition  ;  and  as  their  concurrence 
would  be  indispensable,  the  just  and  constitutional  views  of  the 
other  branch  might  be  defeated.  This  is  the  difficulty  which  has 
probably  created  the  most  serious  apprehensions  in  the  jealou;? 
friends  of  a  numerous  representation.  Fortunately  it  is  among 
the  difficulties  which,  existing  only  in  appearance,  vanish  on  a 
close  and  accurate  inspection.  The  following  reflections  will,  if 
I  mistake  not,  be  admitted  to  be  conclusive  and  satisfactory  on 
this  point. 

Notwithstanding  the  equal  authority  which  will  subsist  between 
the  two  houses  on  all  legislative  subjects,  except  the  originating  of 


THE  FEDERALIST.  29t 

money  bills,  it  cannot  be  doubted,  that  the  house  composed  of  the 
greater  number  of  members,  when  supported  by  the  more  power- 
ful states,  and  speaking  the  known  and  determined  sense  of  a  ma- 
jority of  the  people,  will  have  no  small  advantage  in  a  question 
depending  on  the  comparative  firmness  of  the  two  houses. 

This  advantage  must  be  increased  by  the  consciousness,  felt  by 
the  same  side,  of  being  supported  in  its  demands  by  right,  by  rea- 
son, and  by  the  constitution  ;  and  the  consciousness,  on  the  oppo- 
site side,  of  contending  against  the  force  of  all  these  solemn  con- 
siderations. 

It  is  farther  to  be  considered,  that  in  the  gradation  between  the 
smallest  and  the  largest  states,  there  are  several,  which,  though 
most  likely  in  general  to  arrange  themselves  among  the  former, 
are  too  little  removed  in  extent  and  population  from  the  latter,  to 
second  an  opposition  to  their  just  and  legitimate  pretensions. 
Hence,  it  is  by  no  means  certain,  that  a  majority  of  votes,  even 
in  the  senate,  would  be  unfriendly  to  proper  augmentations  in  the 
number  of  representatives. 

It  will  not  be  looking  too  far  to  add,  that  the  senators  from  all 
the  new  states  may  be  gained  over  to  the  just  views  of  the  house 
of  representatives,  by  an  expedient  too  obvious  to  be  overlooked. 
As  these  stales  will,  for  a  great  length  of  time,  advance  in  popu- 
lation with  peculiar  rapidity,  they  will  be  interested  in  frequent 
reapportionments  of  the  representatives  to  the  number  of  inhab- 
itants. The  large  states,  therefore,  who  will  prevail  in  the  house 
of  representatives,  will  have  nothing  to  do,  but  to  make  reappor- 
tionments and  augmentations  mutually  conditions  of  each  other  ; 
and  the  senators  from  all  the  most  growing  states  will  be  bound  to 
contend  for  the  latter,  by  the  interest  which  their  states  will  feel 
in  the  former. 

These  considerations  seem  to  afford  ample  security  on  this  sub- 
ject-, and  ought  alone  to  satisfy  all  the  doubts  and  fears  which 
have  been  indulged  with  regard  to  it.  Admitting,  however,  that 
they  should  all  be  insufficient  to  subdue  the  unjust  policy  of  the 
smaller  states,  or  their  predominant  influence  in  the  councils  of 
the  senate  ;  a  constitutional  and  infallible  resource  still  remain;^ 
with  the  larger  states,  by  which  they  will  be  able  at  all  tim&lt;gg  to 
accomplish  their  just  purposes.  The  house  of  representati^fes  can 
not  only  refuse,  but  they  alone  can  propose  the  suppIiesXrequisite 
for  the  support  of  government.  They,  in  a  word,  hold^he  purse; 
that  powerful  instrument  by  which  we  behold,  in  the  history  of  the 
British  constitution,  an  infant  and  humble  represesitation  of  the 
people,  gradually  enlarging  the  sphere  of  its  activity  and  import- 


292  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ance,  and  finally  reducing,  as  far  as  it  seems  to  have  wished,  all  the 
overgrown  prerogatives  of  the  other  branches  of  the  government. 
This  power  over  the  purse  n)ay,  in  fact,  be  regarded  as  the  most 
complete  and  effectual  weapon,  with  which  any  constitution  can 
arm  the  immediate  representatives  of  the  people,  for  obtaining  a 
redress  of  every  grievance,  and  for  carrying  into  effect  every  just 
and  salutary  measure. 

But  will  not  the  house  of  representatives  be  as  much  interested 
as  the  senate,  in  maintaining  the  government  in  its  proper  func- 
tions ;  and  will  they  not  therefore  be  unwilling  to  stake  its  exist- 
ence or  its  reputation  on  the  pliancy  of  the  senate  1  Or  if  such 
a  trial  of  firmness  between  the  two  branches  were  hazarded,  would 
not  the  one  be  as  likely  first  to  yield  as  the  other  ?  These  ques- 
tions will  create  no  difficulty  with  those  who  reflect,  that  in  all 
cases,  the  smaller  the  number,  and  the  more  permanent  and  con- 
spicuous the  station  of  men  in  power,  the  stronger  must  be  the 
interest  which  they  will  individually  feel  in  whatever  concerns  the 
government.  Those  who  represent  the  dignity  of  their  country 
in  the  eyes  of  other  nations,  will  be  particularly  sensible  to  every 
prospect  of  public  danger,  or  of  a  dishonourable  stagnation  in 
public  affairs.  To  those  causes,  we  are  to  ascribe  the  continual 
triumph  of  the  British  house  of  commons  over  the  other  branches 
of  the  government,  whenever  the  engine  of  a  money  bill  has  been 
employed.  An  absolute  inflexibility  on  the  side  of  the  latter,  al- 
though it  could  not  have  failed  to  involve  every  department  of  the 
state  in  the  general  confusion,  has  neither  been  apprehended,  nor 
experienced.  The  utmost  degree  of  firmness  that  can  be  display- 
ed by  the  federal  senate  or  president,  will  not  be  more  than  equal 
to  a  resistance,  in  which  they  will  be  supported  by  constitutional 
and  patriotic  principles. 

lu  this  review  of  the  constitution  of  the  house  of  representa- 
tives, I  have  passed  over  the  circumstance  of  economy,  which,  in 
the  present  state  of  affairs,  might  have  had  some  effect  in  lessen- 
ing the  temporary  number  of  representatives  ;  and  a  disregard  of 
which  would  probably  have  been  as  rich  a  theme  of  declamation 
against  the  constitution,  as  has  been  furnished  by  the  smallness  of 
the  number  proposed.  I  omit,  also,  any  remarks  on  the  difficulty 
which  might  be  found,  under  present  circumstances,  in  engaging 
in  the  federal  service  a  large  number  of  such  characters  as  the 
people  wiM  probably  elect.  One  observation,  however,  I  must  be 
permitted  to  add  on  this  subject,  as  claiming,  in  my  judgment,  a 
very  serious  attention.  It  is,  that  in  all  legislative  assemblies,  the 
greater  the  number  composing  them  may  be,  the  fewer  will  be  the 


THE  FEDERALIST.  293 

men  who  will  in  fact  direct  their  proceedings.  Tn  the  first  place, 
the  more  numerous  any  assembly  may  be,  of  whatever  characters 
composed,  the  greater  is  known  to  be  the  ascendancy  of  passion 
over  reason.  In  the  tiext  place,  the  larger  the  number,  the  greater 
will  be  the  proportion  of  members  of  limited  information  and  of 
weak  capacities.  Now,  it  is  precisely  on  characters  of  this  de- 
scription, that  the  eloquence  and  address  of  the  few  are  known  to 
act  with  all  their  force.  In  the  ancient  republics,  where  the  whole 
body  of  the  people  assembled  in  person,  a  single  orator,  or  an 
artful  statesman  was  generally  seen  to  rule  with  as  complete  a 
sway,  as  if  a  sceptre  had  been  placed  in  his  single  hands.  On  the 
same  principle,  the  more  multitudinous  a  representative  assembly 
may  be  rendered,  the  more  it  will  partake  of  the  infirmities  inci- 
dent to  collective  meetings  of  the  people.  Ignorance  will  be  the 
dupe  of  cunning;  and  passion  the  slave  of  sophistry  and  declama- 
tion. The  people  can  never  err  more  than  in  supposing,  that 
by  midtiplying  their  representatives  beyond  a  certain  limit  they 
strengthen  the  barrier  against  the  government  of  a  few.  Experi- 
ence will  for  ever  admonish  them,  that  on  the  contrary,  after  secur- 
ing a  sv-fficient  number  for  the  purposes  of  safety,  of  local  informa- 
tion, and  of  diffusive  sympathy  with  the  whole  society,  they  will 
counteract  their  own  views,  by  every  addition  to  their  representa- 
tives. The  countenance  of  the  government  may  become  more 
democratic ;  but  the  soul  that  animates  it  will  be  more  oligargic. 
The  machine  will  be  enlarged,  but  the  fewer,  and  often  the  more 
secret  will  be  the  springs  by  which  its  motions  are  directed. 

As  connected  with  the  objection  against  the  number  of  repre- 
sentatives, may  properly  be  here  noticed,  that  which  has  been  sug- 
gested against  the  number  made  competent  for  legislative  business. 
It  has  been  said,  that  more  than  a  majority  ought  to  have  been  re- 
quired for  a  quorum  ;  and  in  particular  cases,  if  not  in  all,  more 
than  a  majority  of  a  quorum  for  a  decision. 

That  some  advantages  might  have  resulted  from  such  a  precau- 
tion cannot  be  denied.  It  might  have  been  an  additional  shield  to 
some  particular  interests,  and  another  obstacle  generally  to  hasty 
and  partial  measures.  But  these  considerations  are  outweighed 
by  the  inconveniencies  in  the  opposite  scale.  In  all  cases  where 
justice,  or  the  general  good  might  require  new  laws  to  be  passed, 
or  active  measures  to  be  pursued,  the  fundamental  principle  of 
free  government  would  be  reversed.  It  would  be  no  longer  the 
majority  that  would  rule ;  the  power  would  be  transferred  to  the 
minority.  Were  the  defensive  privilege  limited  to  particular  cases, 
an  interested  minority  might  take  advantage  of  it  to  screen  them- 


294  THE  FEDERALIST. 

selves  from  equitable  sacrifices  to  the  general  weal,  or  in  particu- 
lar emergencies,  to  extort  unreasonable  indulgences.  Lastly,  it 
would  facilitate  and  foster  the  baneful  practice  of  secessions  ;  a 
practice  which  has  shown  itself  even  in  states  where  a  majority 
only  is  required  ;  a  practice  subversive  of  all  the  principles  of  or- 
der and  regular  government ;  a  practice  which  leads  more^irect- 
ly  to  public  convulsions,  and  the  ruin  of  popular  governments, 
than  any  other  which  has  yet  been  displayed  among  us. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LIX. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

Concerning  the  Regulation  of  Elections. 

The  natural  order  of  the  subject  leads  us  to  consider,  in  thia 
place,  that  provision  of  the  constitution  which  authorizes  the  na- 
tional legislature  to  regulate,  in  the  last  resort,  the  election  of  its 
own  members. 

It  is  in  these  words  :  "  The  times,  places,  and  mannei'  of  hold- 
"  ing  elections  for  senators  and  representatives,  shall  be  prescrib- 
«' ed  in  each  state  by  the  legislature  thereof;  but  the  congress 
'•  may,  at  any  time,  by  law,  make  or  alter  such  regulations,  except 
•'  as  to  places  of  choosing  senators."*  This  provision  has  not 
only  been  declaimed  against  by  those  who  condemn  the  constitu- 
tion in  the  gross  ;  but  it  has  been  censured  by  those  who  have  ob- 
jected with  less  latitude,  and  greater  moderation  ;  and,  in  one  in- 
stance, it  has  been  thought  exceptionable  by  a  genileman  who  has 
declared  himself  the  advocate  of  every  other  part  of  the  system. 

I  am  greatly  mistaken,  notwithstanding,  if  there  be  any  article 
in  the  whole  plan  more  completely  defensible  than  this.  Its  pro- 
priety rests  upon  the  evidence  of  this  plain  proposition,  that  every 
government  ought  to  contain  in  itself  the  means  of  its  own  preserva- 
tion. Eyery  just  reasoner  will,  at  first  sight,  approve  an  adherence 
to  this  rule  in  the  work  of  the  convention  ;  and  will  disapprove 
every  deviation  from  it,  which  may  not  appear  to  have  been  dic- 
tated by  the  necessity  of  incorporating  into  the  work  some  partic- 
ular ingredient,  with  which  a  rigid  conformity  to  the  rule  was  in- 
compatible. Even  in  this  case,  though  he  may  acquiesce  in  the 
necessity,  yet  he  will  not  cease  to  regard  a  departue  from  so  fun- 
damental a  principle,  as  a  portion  of  imperfection  in  the  systena 

*  1st  Clause,  4th  Section  of  the  1st  Article. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  295 

which  may  prove  the  seed  of  future  weakness,   and  perhaps  an- 
archy. 

It  will  not  be  alleged,  that  an  election  law  could  have  been 
framed  and  inserted  in  the  constitution,  which  would  have  been 
applicable  to  every  probable  change  in  the  situation  of  the  country; 
and  it  will,  therefore,  not  be  denied,  that  a  discretionary  power 
over  elections  ought  to  exist  somewhere.  It  will,  I  presume,  be 
as  readily  conceded,  that  there  were  only  three  ways  in  which  this 
power  could  have  been  reasonabi}'  organized  ;  that  it  must  either 
have  been  lodged  wholly  in  the  national  legislature,  or  wholly  in 
the  state  legislatures,  or  primarily  in  the  latter,  and  ultimately  in 
the  former.  The  last  mode  has  with  reason  been  preferred  by  the 
convention.  They  have  submitted  the  regulation  of  elections  for 
the  federal  government,  in  the  first  instance,  to  the  local  adminis- 
trations ;  which,  in  ordinary  cases,  and  when  no  improper  views 
prevail,  may  be  both  more  convenient  and  more  satisfactory  ;  but 
they  have  reserved  to  the  national  authority  a  right  to  interpose, 
whenever  extraordinary  circumstances  might  render  that  interpo- 
sition necessary  to  its  safety. 

Nothing  can  be  more  evident,  than  that  an  exclusive  power  of 
regulating  elections  for  the  national  government,  in  the  hands  of 
the  state  legislatures,  would  leave  the  existence  of  the  union  en- 
tirely at  their  mercy.  They  could  at  any  moment  annihilate  it, 
by  neglecting  to  provide  for  the  choice  of  persons  to  administer 
its  affairs.  It  is  to  little  purpose  to  say,  that  a  neglect  or  omission 
of  this  kind  would  not  be  likely  to  take  place.  The  constitutional 
possibility  of  the  thing,  without  an  equivalent  for  the  risk,  is  an 
unanswerable  objection.  Nor  has  any  satisfactory  reason  been 
yet  assigned  for  incurring  that  risk.  The  extravagant  surmises  of 
a  distempered  jealousy,  can  never  be  dignified  with  that  character. 
If  we  are  in  a  humour  to  presume  abuses  of  power,  it  is  as  fair  to 
presume  them  on  the  part  of  the  state  governments,  as  on  the  part 
of  the  general  government.  And  as  it  is  more  consonant  to  the 
rules  of  a  just  theory,  to  entrust  the  union  with  the  care  of  its  own 
existence,  than  to  transfer  that  care  to  any  other  hands  ;  if  abuses 
of  power  are  to  be  hazarded  on  the  one  side  or  on  the  other,  it  is 
more  rational  to  hazard  them  where  the  power  would  naturally  be 
placed,  than  where  it  would  unnaturally  be  placed. 

Suppose  an  article  had  been  introduced  into  the  constitution, 
empowering  the  United  States  to  regulate  the  elections  for  the 
particular  states,  would  any  man  have  hesitated  to  condemn  it, 
both  as  an  unwarrantable  transposition  of  power,  and  as  a  pre- 
meditated engine  for  the  destruction  of  the  state  governments  1 


296  THE  FEDERALIST. 

The  violation  of  principle,  in  this  case,  would  have  required  no 
comment;  and,  to  an  unbiased  observer,  it  will  not  be  less  appa- 
rent in  the  project  of  subjecting  the  existence  of  the  national  gov- 
ernment, in  a  similar  respect,  to  the  pleasure  of  the  state  govern- 
ments. An  impartial  view  of  the  matter  cannot  fail  to  result  in  a 
conviction,  that  each,  as  far  as  possible,  ought  to  depend  on  itself 
for  its  own  preservation. 

As  an  objection  to  this  position,  it  may  be  remarked,  that  the 
constitution  of  the  national  senate  would  involve,  in  its  full  extent, 
the  danger  which  it  is  suggested  might  flow  from  an  exclusive 
power  in  the  state  legislatures  to  regulate  the  federal  elections.  It 
may  be  alleged,  that  by  declining  the  appointment  of  senators, 
they  might  at  any  time  give  a  fatal  blow  to  the  union ;  and  from 
this  it  may  be  inferred,  that  as  its  existence  would  be  thus  render- 
ed dependent  upon  them  in  so  essential  a  point,  there  can  be  no  ob- 
jection to  entrusting  them  with  it,  in  the  particular  case  under  con- 
sideration. The  interest  of  each  state,  it  may  be  added,  to  main- 
tain its  representation  in  the  national  councils,  would  be  a  com- 
plete security  against  an  abuse  of  the  trust. 

This  argument,  though  specious,  will  not,  upon  examination, 
be  found  solid.  It  is  certainly  true,  that  the  state  legislatures,  by 
forbearing  the  appointment  of  senators,  may  destroy  the  national 
government.  But  it  will  not  follow,  that  because  they  have  the  pow- 
er to  do  this  in  one  instance,  they  ought  to  have  it  in  every  other. 
There  are  cases  in  which  the  pernicious  tendency  of  such  a  power 
may  be  far  more  decisive,  without  any  motive  to  recommend  their 
admission  into  the  system,  equally  cogent  with  that  which  must 
have  regulated  the  conduct  of  the  convention,  in  respect  to  the 
formation  of  the  senate.  So  far  as  that  mode  of  formation  may 
expose  the  union  to  the  possibility  of  injury  from  the  state  legisla- 
tures, it  is  an  evil  ;  but  it  is  an  evil  which  could  not  have  been 
avoided  without  excluding  the  states,  in  their  political  capacities, 
wholly  from  a  place  in  the  organization  of  the  national  govern- 
ment. If  this  had  been  done,  it  would  doubtless  have  been  inter- 
preted into  an  entire  dereliction  of  the  federal  principle ;  and 
would  certainly  have  deprived  the  state  governments  of  that  abso- 
lute safeguard,  which  they  will  enjoy  under  this  provision.  But 
however  wise  it  may  have  been,  to  have  submitted  in  this  instance 
to  an  inconvenience,  for  the  attainment  of  a  necessary  advantage 
or  a  greater  good,  no  inference  can  be  drawn  from  thence  to  favour 
an  accumulation  of  the  evil,  where  no  necessity  urges,  nor  any 
greater  good  invites. 

It  may  also  be  easily  discerned,  that  the  national  government 


THE  FEDERALIST.  297 

would  run  a  much  greater  risk,  from  a  power  in  the  state  legisla- 
tures over  the  elections  of  its  house  of  representatives,  than  from 
their  power  of  appointing  the  memhers  of  its  senate.  The  sena- 
tors are  to  be  chosen  for  the  period  of  six  years  :  there  is  to  be  a 
rotation,  by  which  the  seats  of  a  third  part  of  them  are  to  be  va- 
cated, and  replenished  every  two  years  ;  and  no  state  is  to  be  en- 
titled to  more  than  two  senators  :  a  quorum  of  the  body,  is  to  con- 
sist of  sixteen  members.  The  joint  result  of  these  circumstances 
would  be,  that  a  temporary  combination  of  a  few  states,  to  inter- 
mit the  appointment  of  senators  could  neither  annul  the  existence, 
nor  impair  the  activity  of  the  body  :  and  it  is  not  from  a  general 
and  permanent  combination  of  the  states,  that  we  can  have  any 
thing  to  fear.  The  first  might  proceed  from  sinister  designs  in 
the  leading  members  of  a  few  of  the  state  legislatures  :  the  last 
would  suppose  a  fixed  and  rooted  dissatisfaction  in  the  great  body 
of  the  people  :  which  will,  either  never  exist  at  all,  or  will  in  all 
probability,  proceed  from  an  experience  of  the  ina])titude  of  the 
general  government  to  the  advancement  of  their  happiness;  in 
which  event,  no  good  citizen  could  desire  its  continuance. 

But  with  regard  to  the  federal  house  of  representatives,  there  is 
intended  to  be  a  general  election  of  members  once  in  two  years. 
If  the  state  legislatures  were  to  be  invested  with  an  exclusive  pow- 
er of  regulating  these  elections,  every  period  of  making  them 
would  be  a  delicate  crisis  in  the  national  situation  ;  which  might 
issue  in  a  dissolution  of  the  union,  if  the  leaders  of  a  few  of  the 
most  important  states  should  have  entered  into  a  previous  conspir- 
acy to  prevent  an  election. 

I  shall  not  deny,  that  there  is  a  degree  of  weight  in  the  obser- 
vation, that  the  interest  of  each  state,  to  be  represented  in  the  fed- 
eral councils,  will  be  a  security  against  the  abuse  of  a  power  over 
its  elections  in  the  hands  of  the  state  legislatures.  But  the  secu- 
rity will  not  be  considered  as  complete,  by  those  who  attend  to  the 
force  of  an  obvious  distinction  between  the  interests  of  the  people 
in  the  public  felicity,  and  the  interest  of  their  local  rulers  in  the 
power  and  consequence  of  their  offices.  The  people  of  America 
may  be  warmly  attached  to  the  government  of  the  union,  at  times 
when  the  particular  rulers  of  particular  states,  stimulated  by  the 
natural  rivalship  of  power,  and  by  the  hopes  of  personal  aggran- 
dizement, and  supported  by  a  strong  faction  in  each  of  those 
states,  may  be  in  a  very  opposite  temper.  This  diversity  of  senti- 
ment between  a  majority  of  the  people,  and  the  individuals  who 
have  the  greatest  credit  in  their  councils,  is  exemplified  in  some  of 
the  states  at  the  present  nfioment,  on  the  present  question.  The 
36 


298  THE  FEDERALIST. 

scheme  of  separate  confederacies,  which  will  always  multiply  the 
..chances  of  ambition,  will  be  a  never-failing  bait  to  all  such  influ- 
ential characters  in  the  state  administration,  as  are  capable  of 
preferring  their  own  emolument  and  advancement  to  the  public 
weal.  With  so  effectual  a  weapon  in  their  hands  as  the  exclusive 
power  of  regulating  elections  for  the  national  government,  a  com- 
bination of  a  few  such  men,  in  a  few  of  the  most  considerable 
states,  where  the  temptation  will  always  be  the  strongest,  might 
accomplish  the  destruction  of  the  union;  by  seizing  the  opportuni- 
ty of  some  casual  dissatisfaction  among  the  people,  and  which, 
perhaps,  they  may  themselves  have  excited,  to  discontinue  the 
choice  of  members  for  the  federal  house  of  representatives.  It 
ought  never  to  be  forgotten,  that  a  firm  union  of  this  country,  un- 
der an  efficient  government,  will  probably  be  an  increasing  object 
of  jealousy  to  more  than  one  nation  of  Europe  ;  and  that  enter- 
prises to  subvert  it  will  sometimes  originate  in  the  intrigues  of  for- 
eign powers,  and  will  seldom  fail  to  be  patronized  and  abetted  by 
some  of  them.  Its  preservation,  therefore,  ought  in  no  case,  that 
can  be  avoided,  to  be  committed  to  the  guardiansliip  of  any  but 
those,  whose  situation  will  uniformly  beget  an  immediate  interest 
in  the  faithful  and  vigilant  performance  of  the  trust. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LX. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

Tht  same  Subject  Continued. 

We  have  seen,  that  an  uncontrollable  power  over  the  elections 
for  the  federal  government  could  not,  without  hazard,  be  commit- 
ted to  the  state  legislatures.  Let  us  now  see,  what  are  the  dangers 
on  the  other  side  ;  that  is,  from  confiding  the  ultimate  right  of  reg- 
ulating its  own  elections  to  the  union  itself.  It  is  not  pretended, 
that  this  right  would  ever  be  used  for  the  exclusion  of  any  state 
from  its  share  in  the  representation.  The  interest  of  all  would, 
in  this  respect  at  least,  be  the  security  of  all.  But  it  is  alleged, 
that  it  might  be  employed  in  such  a  manner  as  to  promote  the 
election  of  some  favourite  class  of  men  in  exclusion  of  others ; 
by  confining  the  places  of  election  to  particular  districts,  and  ren- 
dering it  impracticable  for  the  citizens  at  large  to  partake  in  the 
choice.  Of  all  chimerical  suppositions,  this  seems  to  be  the  most 
chimerical.     On  the  one  hand,  no  rational  calculation  of  probabili- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  299 

ties  would  lead  us  to  imagine  that  the  disposition,  which  a  con- 
duct so  violent  and  extranrdiiiary  would  imply,  could  ever  find  its 
way  into  the  national  councils;  and  on  the  other  hand,  it  may  be 
concluded  with  certainty,  that  if  so  improper  a  spirit  should  ever 
gain  admittance  into  them,  it  would  display  itself  in  a  form  alto- 
gether diflerent  and  far  more  decisive. 

The  improbability  of  the  attempt  may  be  satisfactorily  inferred 
from  this  single  reflection,  that  it  could  never  be  made  without 
causing  an  immediate  revolt  of  the  great  body  of  the  people, 
headed  and  directed  by  the  state  governments.  It  is  not  difficult 
to  conceive,  that  this  characteristic  right  of  freedom  may,  in  cer- 
tain turbulent  and  factious  seasons,  be  violated,  in  respect  to  a 
particular  class  of  citizens,  by  a  victorious  majority;  but  that  so 
fundamental  a  privilege,  in  a  country  situated  and  enlightened  as 
this  is,  should  be  invaded  to  the  prejudice  of  the  great  mass  of 
the  people,  by  the  deliberate  policy  of  the  government,  without 
occasioning  a  popular  revolution,  is  altogether  inconceivable  and 
incredible. 

In  addition  to  this  general  reflection,  there  are  considerations  of 
a  more  precise  nature,  which  forbid  all  apprehension  on  the  sub- 
ject. The  dissimilarity  in  the  ingredients,  which  will  compose  the 
national  government,  and  still  mure  in  the  manner  in  which  they 
will  be  brought  into  action  in  its  various  branches,  must  form  a 
powerful  obstacle  to  a  concert  of  views,  in  any  partial  scheme  of 
elections.  There  is  sufficient  diversity  in  the  state  of  property, 
in  the  genius,  manners,  and  habits  of  the  people  of  the  different 
parts  of  the  union,  to  occasion  a  material  diversity  of  disposition 
in  their  representatives  towards  the  different  ranks  and  conditions 
in  society.  And  though  an  intimate  intercourse  under  the  same 
government  will  promote  a  gradual  assimilation  of  temper  and 
sentiment,  yet  there  are  causes,  as  well  physical  as  moral,  which 
may,  in  a  greater  or  less  degree,  permanently  nourish  different 
propensities  and  inclinations  in  this  particular.  But  the  circum- 
stance which  will  be  likely  to  have  the  greatest  influence  in  the 
matter,  will  be  the  dissin)ilar  modes  of  constituting  the  several 
component  parts  of  the  government.  The  house  of  representa- 
tives being  to  be  elected  immediately  by  the  people  ;  the  senate  by 
the  state  legislatures  ;  the  president  by  electors  chosen  for  that 
purpose  by  the  people  ;  there  would  be  little  probability  of  a  com- 
mon interest  to  cement  these  different  branches  in  a  predilection 
for  anv  particular  class  of  electors. 

As  to  the  senate,  it  is  impossible  that  any  regulation  of  "  time  and 
*'  manner,"  which  is  all  that  is  proposed  to  be  submitted  to  the  na- 


300  THE  FEDERALIST. 

tional  government  in  respect  to  that  body,  can  affect  the  spirit 
whicli  will  direct  the  choice  of  its  members.  The  collective  sense 
of  the  state  legislatures  can  never  be  influenced  by  extraneous  cir- 
cumstfinces  of  that  sort  ;  a  consideration  which  alone  ought  to 
satisfy  us,  that  the  discrimination  apprehended  would  never  be  at- 
tempted. For  what  inducement  could  the  senate  have,  to  concur 
in  a  preference  in  vUiich  itself  would  not  be  included  1  Or  to  what 
purpose  would  it  be  established,  in  reference  to  one  branch  of  the 
legislature,  if  it  could  not  be  extended  to  the  other  ?  The  com- 
position of  the  one  vvoidd  in  this  case  counteract  that  of  the  other. 
And  we  can  never  suppose  that  it  would  embrace  the  appoint- 
ments to  the  senate,  unless  we  can  at  the  same  time  suppose  the 
voluntary  cooperation  of  the  state  legislatures.  If  we  make  the 
latter  supposition,  it  then  becomes  immaterial,  where  the  power  in 
question  is  placed,  whether  in  their  hands,  or  in  those  of  the  union. 

But  what  is  to  be  the  object  of  this  capricious  partiality  in  the 
national  councils  ?  Is  it  to  be  exercised  in  a  discrimination  be- 
tween the  dii^erent  departments  of  industry,  or  between  the  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  property,  or  between  the  different  degrees  of  prop- 
erty ?  Will  it  lean  in  favour  of  the  landed  interest,  or  the  money- 
ed interest,  or  the  merchantile  interest,  or  the  manufacturing  in- 
terest ?  Or  to  speak  in  the  fashionable  language  of  the  adversa- 
ries to  the  constitution,  will  it  court  the  elevation  of  "  the  wealthy 
"  and  the  well-born,"  to  the  exclusion  and  debasement  of  all  the 
rest  of  the  society  ? 

If  this  partiality  is  to  be  exerted  in  favour  of  those  who  are  con- 
cerned in  any  particular  description  of  industry  or  property,  I 
presume  it  will  readily  be  admitted,  that  the  competition  for  it 
will  lie  between  landed  men  and  merchants.  And  I  scruple  not 
to  affirm,  that  it  is  infinitely  less  likely  that  either  of  them  should 
gain  an  ascendant  in  the  national  councils,  than  that  the  one  or 
the  other  of  them  should  predominate  in  all  the  local  councils. 
The  inference  will  be,  that  a  conduct  tending  to  give  an  undue 
preference  to  either  is  much  less  to  be  dreaded  from  the  former, 
than  from  the  latter. 

The  several  states  are  in  various  degrees  addicted  to  agricidture 
and  commerce.  In  most,  if  not  all  of  them,  the  first  is  predom- 
inant. In  a  few  of  them,  however,  the  latter  nearly  divides  its 
empire  ;  and  in  most  of  them  has  a  considerable  share  of  influ- 
ence. In  proportion  as  either  prevails,  it  will  be  conveyed  into 
the  national  representation  :  and  for  the  very  reason,  that  this 
will  be  an  emanation  from  a  greater  variety  of  interests,  and  in 
much  more  various  proportions,  than  are  to  be  found  in  any  single 


THE  FEDERALIST.  301 

state,  it  will  be  much  less  apt  to  espouse  either  of  them,  with  a  de- 
cided partiality,  than  the  representation  of  any  single  state. 

In  a  country  consisting  chiefly  of  the  cultivators  of  land,  where 
the  rules  of  an  equal  representation  obtain,  the  landed  interest 
must,  upon  the  whole,  preponderate  in  the  government.  As  long 
as  this  interest  prevails  in  most  of  the  state  legislatures,  so  long  it 
must  maintain  a  correspondent  superiority  in  the  national  senate, 
which  will  generally  be  a  faithful  copy  of  the  majorities  of  those 
assemblies.  It  cannot  therefore  be  presumed,  that  a  sacrifice  of 
the  landed  to  the  merchantile  class  will  ever  be  a  favourite  object 
of  this  branch  of  the  federal  legislature.  In  applying  thus  par- 
ticularly to  the  senate  a  general  observation  suggested  by  the  sit- 
uation of  the  country,  I  am  governed  by  the  consideration,  that 
the  credulous  votaries  of  state  power  cannot,  upon  their  own  prin- 
ciples, suspect,  that  the  state  legislatures  would  be  warped  from 
their  duty  by  any  external  influence.  But  as  in  reality  the  same 
situation  must  have  the  same  eff'ect,  in  the  primitive  composition 
at  least  of  the  federal  house  of  representatives  ;  an  improper  bias 
towards  the  merchantile  class,  is  as  little  to  be  expected  from  this 
quarter  as  from  the  other. 

In  order,  perhaps,  to  give  countenance  to  the  objection  at  any 
rate,  it  may  be  asked,  is  there  not  danger  of  an  opposite  bias  in 
the  national  government,  which  may  produce  an  endeavour  to  se- 
cure a  monopoly  of  the  federal  administration  to  the  landed  class? 
As  there  is  little  likelihood,  that  the  supposition  of  such  a  bias  will 
have  any  terrours  for  those  who  would  be  immediately  injured  by 
it,  a  laboured  answer  to  this  question  will  be  dispensed  with.  It 
will  be  sufficient  to  remark,  first,  that  for  the  reasons  elsewhere  as- 
signed, it  is  less  likely  that  any  decided  partiality  should  prevail 
in  the  councils  of  the  union,  than  in  those  of  any  of  its  members : 
secondly,  that  there  would  be  no  temptation  to  violate  the  consti- 
tution in  favour  of  the  landed  class,  because  that  class  would,  in  the 
natural  course  of  things,  enjoy  as  great  a  preponderancy  as  itself 
could  desire  :  and,  thirdly,  that  men  accustomed  to  investigate  the 
sources  of  public  prosperity,  upon  a  large  scale,  must  be  too  well 
convinced  of  tiie  utility  of  commerce,  to  be  inclined  to  inflict 
upon  it  so  deep  a  wound,  as  would  be  occasioned  by  the  entire  ex- 
clusion of  those  who  would  best  understand  its  interests,  from  a 
share  in  the  management  of  them.  The  importance  of  commerce, 
in  the  view  of  revenue  alone,  must  effectually  guard  it  against  the 
enmity  of  a  body  which  would  be  continually  importuned  in  its 
favour,  by  the  urgent  calls  of  public  necessity. 

I  the  rather  consult  brevity  in  discussing  the  probability  of  a 


302  THE  FEDERALIST. 

preference  founded  upon  a  discrimination  between  the  different 
kinds  of  industry  and  property,  because,  as  far  as  I  understand  the 
meaning  of  tlie  objectors,  they  contemplate  a  discrimination  of 
another  kind.  Tliey  appear  to  have  in  view,  as  the  objects  of 
the  preference  with  which  they  endeavour  to  abxrm  us,  those  whonn 
they  designate  by  the  description  of  "  the  wealthy  and  the  well- 
"  born."  Tliese,  it  seems,  are  to  be  exalted  to  an  odious  preemi- 
nence over  the  rest  of  their  fellow-citizens.  At  one  time,  howev- 
er, their  elevation  is  to  be  a  necessary  consequence  of  the  small- 
ness  of  the  representative  body  :  at  another  time,  it  is  to  be  effect- 
ed by  depriving  the  people  at  large  of  the  opportuisity  of  exercis- 
inof  their  right  of  suffrage  in  the  choice  of  that  body. 

But  upon  what  principle  is  the  discrimination  of  the  places  of 
election  to  be  made,  in  order  to  answer  the  purpose  of  the  medi- 
tated preference  1  Are  the  wealthy  and  the  well-horn,  as  they  are 
called,  confined  to  particular  spots  in  the  several  states  ?  Have 
they,  by  some  miraculous  instinct  or  foresight,  set  apart  in  each 
of  them  a  common  place  of  residence  ?  Are  they  only  to  be  met 
with  in  the  towns  and  the  cities  ]  Or  are  they,  on  the  contrary, 
scattered  over  the  face  of  the  country,  as  avarice  or  chance  may 
have  happened  to  cast  their  own  lot,  or  that  of  their  predecessors? 
If  the  latter  is  the  case,  (as  every  intelligent  man  knows  it  to  be,*) 
is  it  not  evident  that  the  policy  of  confining  the  places  of  elections 
to  particular  districts,  would  he  as  subversive  of  its  own  aim,  as 
it  would  be  exceptionable  on  every  other  account  ?  The  truth  is, 
that  there  is  no  method  of  securing  to  the  rich  the  preference  ap- 
prehended, but  by  prescribing  qualifications  of  property  either  for 
those  who  may  elect,  or  be  elected.  But  this  forms  no  part  of 
the  power  to  be  conferred  upon  the  national  government.  Its  au- 
thority would  be  expressly  restricted  to  the  regulation  of  the  times, 
the  places,  and  the  manner  of  elections.  The  qualifications  of  the 
persons  who  may  choose,  or  be  chosen,  as  has  been  remarked  upon 
another  occasion,  are  defined  and  fixed  in  the  constitution,  and 
are  unalterable  by  the  legislature. 

Let  it  however  be  admitted,  for  argument  sake,  that  the  expe- 
dient suggested  might  be  successful  ;  and  let  it  at  the  same  time 
be  equally  taken  for  granted,  that  all  the  scruples  which  a  sense 
of  duty,  or  an  apprehension  of  the  danger  of  the  experiment 
mifht  inspire,  were  overcome  in  the  breasts  of  the  national  rulers; 
still,  I  imagine,  it  will  hardly  be  pretended,  that  they  could  ever 
hope  to  carry  such  an  enterprise  into  execution,  without  the  aid 
of  a  military  force  sufficient  to  subdue  the  resistance  of  the  great 

*  Parlicularl}'  in  (he  southern  slates  and  in  this  slate. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  303 

body  of  the  people.  The  improbability  of  the  existence  of  a 
force  equal  to  that  object,  has  been  discussed  and  demonstrated  in 
difterent  parts  of  these  papers  ;  but  that  the  futility  of  the  objec- 
tion under  consideration  may  appear  in  the  strongest  light,  it  shall 
be  conceded  for  a  moment,  that  such  a  force  might  exist ;  and  the 
national  government  shall  be  supposed  to  be  in  the  actual  posses- 
sion of  it.  What  will  be  the  conclusion  1  With  a  disposition  to 
invade  the  essential  rights  of  the  community,  and  with  the  means 
of  gratifying  that  disposition,  is  it  presumable  that  the  persons 
who  were  actuated  by  it  would  amuse  themselves  in  the  ridiculous 
task  of  fabricating  election  laws  for  securing  a  preference  to  a 
favourite  class  of  men  1  Would  they  not  be  likely  to  prefer  a 
conduct  better  adapted  to  their  own  immediate  aggrandizement? 
Would  they  not  rather  boldly  resolve  to  perpetuate  themselves  in 
office  by  one  decisive  act  of  usurpation,  than  to  trust  to  precarious 
expedients,  which,  in  spite  of  all  the  precautions  that  might  ac- 
company them,  might  terminate  in  the  dismission,  disgrace,  and 
ruin  of  their  authors  ?  W  ould  they  not  fear,  that  citizens,  not 
less  tenacious  than  conscious  of  their  rights,  would  flock  from  the 
remotest  extremes  of  their  respective  states  to  the  places  of  elec- 
tion, to  overthrow  their  tyrants,  and  to  substitute  men  who  would 
be  disposed  to  avenge  the  violated  majesty  of  the  people  ? 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXI. 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued,  and  Concluded. 
The  more  candid  opposers  of  the  provision,  contained  in  the 
plan  of  the  convention,  respecting  elections,  w  hen  pressed  in  ar- 
gument, will  sometimes  concede  the  propriety  of  it;  with  this 
qualification,  however,  that  it  ought  to  have  been  accompanied 
with  a  declaration,  that  all  elections  should  be  held  in  the  counties 
where  the  electors  reside.  This,  say  they,  was  a  necessary  pre- 
caution against  an  abuse  of  the  power.  A  declaration  of  this  na- 
ture would  certainly  have  been  harmless  :  so  far  as  it  would  have 
had  the  effect  of  quieting  apprehensions,  it  might  not  have  been 
undesirable.  But  it  would,  in  fact,  have  afforded  little  or  no  ad- 
ditional security  against  tlie  danger  apprehended  ;  and  the  want 
of  it  will  never  be  considered,  by  an  impartial  and  judicious  exam- 
iner, as  a  serious,  still  less  as  an  insuperable  objection  to  the  plan. 
The  diflferent  views  taken  of  the  subject  in  the  two  preceding  pa- 


304  THE  FEDERALIST. 

pers,  must  be  sufficient  to  satisfy  all  dispassionate  and  discerning 
men,  that  if  the  public  liberty  should  ever  be  the  victim  of  the 
ambition  of  the  national  rulers,  the  power  under  examination,  at 
least,  will  be  guiltless  of  the  sacrifice. 

If  those  who  are  inclined  to  consult  their  jealousy  only,  would 
exercise  it  in  a  careful  inspection  of  the  several  state  constitutions, 
they  would  find  little  less  room  for  disquietude  and  alarm,  from 
the  latitude  which  most  of  them  allow  in  respect  to  elections,  than 
from  that  whicli  is  proposed  to  be  allowed  to  the  national  govern- 
ment in  the  same  respect.  A  review  of  their  situation,  in  this  par- 
ticular, would  tend  greatly  to  remove  any  ill  impressions  which 
may  remain  in  regard  to  this  matter.  But  as  that  review  would 
lead  into  long  and  tedious  details,  I  shall  content  myself  with  the 
single  example  of  the  state  in  which  I  write.  The  constitution  of  New- 
York  makes  no  other  provision  for  locality  of  elections,  than  that 
the  members  of  the  assen)bly  shall  be  elected  in  the  counties;  those 
of  the  senate,  in  the  great  districts  into  which  the  state  is,  or  may  be 
divided  :  these  at  present  are  four  in  number,  and  comprehend  each 
from  two  to  six  counties.  It  may  readily  be  perceived,  that  it 
would  not  be  more  difficult  for  the  legislature  of  New  York  to  de- 
feat the  suftVages  of  the  citizens  of  New  York,  by  confining  elec- 
tions to  particular  places,  than  for  the  legislature  of  the  United 
States  to  defeat  the  suff"rages  of  the  citizens  of  the  union,  by  the 
like  expedient.  Suppose,  for  instance,  the  city  of  Albany  was  to 
be  appointed  the  sole  place  of  election  for  the  county  and  district 
of  which  it  is  a  part,  would  not  the  inhabitants  of  that  city  speedi- 
ly become  the  only  electors  of  the  members  both  of  the  senate 
and  assembly  for  that  county  and  district  1  Can  we  imagine,  that 
the  electors  who  reside  in  the  remote  subdivisions  of  the  counties 
of  Albany,  Saratoga,  Cambridge,  &amp;.C.,  or  in  any  part  of  the  coun- 
ty of  Montgomery,  would  take  the  trouble  to  come  to  the  city  of 
Albany,  to  give  their  votes  for  members  of  the  assembly  or  senate, 
sooner  than  they  would  repair  to  the  city  of  New  York,  to  partici- 
pate in  the  choice  of  the  members  of  the  federal  house  of  repre- 
sentatives"?  The  alarming  indifference  discoverable  in  the  exer- 
cise of  so  invaluable  a  privilege  under  the  existing  laws,  which  af- 
ford every  facility  to  it,  furnishes  a  ready  answer  to  this  question. 
And,  abstracted  from  any  experience  on  the  subject,  we  can  be  at 
no  loss  to  determine,  that  when  the  place  of  election  is  at  an  in- 
convenient distance  from  the  elector,  the  effect  upon  his  conduct 
will  be  the  same,  whether  that  distance  be  twenty  miles,  or  twenty 
thousand  miles.  Hence  it  must  appear,  that  objections  to  the  par- 
ticular modification  of  the  federal  power  of  regulating  elections, 


THE  FEDERALIST.  305 

will,  in  substance,  apply  with  equal  force  to  the  modification  of 
the  like  power  in  the  constitution  of  this  state  :  and  for  this  reason 
it  will  be  impossible  to  acquit  the  one,  and  to  condemn  the  other. 
A  similar  comparison  would  lead  to  the  same  conclusion,  in  re- 
spect to  the  constitutions  of  most  of  the  other  states. 

If  it  should  be  said,  that  defects  in  the  state  constitutions  fur- 
nish no  apology  to  those  which  are  to  be  found  in  the  plan  propos- 
ed ;  I  answer,  that  as  the  former  have  never  been  thought  charge- 
able with  inattention  to  the  security  of  liberty,  where  the  imputa- 
tions thrown  on  the  latter  can  be  shown  to  be  applicable  to  them 
also,  the  presumption  is,  that  they  are  rather  the  cavilling  refine- 
ments of  a  predetermined  opposition,  than  the  well  founded  in- 
ferences of  a  candid  research  after  truth.  To  those  who  are  dis- 
posed to  consider,  as  innocent  omissions  in  the  state  constitutions, 
what  they  regard  as  unpardonable  blemishes  in  the  plan  of  the 
convention,  nothing  can  be  said  ;  or  at  most,  they  can  only  be  ask- 
ed to  assign  some  substantial  reason  why  the  representatives  of 
the  people,  in  a  single  state,  should  be  more  impregnable  to  the 
lust  of  power,  or  other  sinister  motives,  than  the  representatives 
of  the  people  of  the  United  States  ?  If  they  cannot  do  this,  they 
ought  at  least,  to  prove  to  us  that  it  is  easier  to  subvert  the  liber- 
ties of  three  millions  of  people,  with  the  advantage  of  local  gov- 
ernments to  head  their  opposition,  than  of  two  hundred  thousand 
people  who  are  destitute  of  that  advantage.  And  in  relation  to 
the  point  immediately  under  consideration,  they  ought  to  convince 
us  that  it  is  less  probable  that  a  predominant  faction,  in  a  single 
state,  should,  in  order  to  maintain  its  superiority,  incline  to  a  pre- 
ference of  a  particular  class  of  electors,  than  that  a  similar  spirit 
should  take  possession  of  the  representatives  of  thirteen  states, 
spread  over  a  vast  region,  and  in  several  respects  distinguishable 
from  each  other  by  a  diversity  of  local  circumstances,  prejudices, 
and  interests. 

Hitherto  my  observations  have  only  aimed  at  a  vindication  of 
the  provision  in  question,  on  the  ground  of  theoretic  propriety,  on 
that  of  the  danger  of  placing  the  power  elsewhere,  and  on  that  of 
the  safety  of  placing  it  in  the  manner  proposed.  But  there  i*e- 
mains  to  be  mentioned  a  positive  advantage,  which  will  accrue 
from  this  disposition,  and  which  could  not  as  well  have  been  ob- 
tained from  any  other  :  I  allude  to  the  circumstance  of  uniformity, 
in  the  time  of  elections  for  the  federal  house  of  representatives. 
It  is  more  than  possible,  that  this  uniformity  may  be  found  by  ex- 
perience to  be  of  great  importance  to  the  public  welfare ;  both  as 
a  security  against  the  perpetuation  of  the  same  spirit  in  the  body, 
37 


306  THE  FEDERALIST. 

and  as  a  cure  for  the  diseases  of  faction.  If  each  state  may 
choose  its  own  time  of  election,  it  is  possible  there  may  be,  at 
least,  as  many  different  periods  as  there  are  months  in  the  year. 
The  times  of  election  in  the  several  states,  as  they  are  now  establish- 
ed fur  local  purposes,  vary  between  extremes  as  wide  as  March  and 
November.  The  consequence  of  this  diversity  would  be,  that 
there  could  never  happen  a  total  dissolution  or  renovation  of  the 
body  at  one  time.  If  an  improper  spirit  of  any  kind  should  hap- 
pen to  prevail  in  it,  that  spirit  would  be  apt  to  infuse  itself  into 
the  new  members,  as  they  come  forward  in  succession.  The  mass 
would  be  likely  to  remain  nearly  the  same ;  assimilating  constant- 
ly to  itself  its  gradual  accretions.  There  is  a  contagion  in  exam- 
ple, which  few  men  have  sufficient  force  of  mind  to  resist.  I  am 
inclined  to  think,  that  treble  the  duration  in  office,  with  the  con- 
dition of  a  total  dissolution  of  the  body  at  the  same  time,  might 
be  less  formidable  to  liberty,  than  one  third  of  that  duration  sub- 
ject to  gradual  and  successive  alterations. 

Uniformity,  in  the  time  of  elections,  seems  not  less  requisite  for 
executing  the  idea  of  a  regular  rotation  in  the  senate  ;  and  for 
conveniently  assembling  the  legislature  at  a  stated  period  in  each 
year. 

It  may  be  asked,  why  then  could  not  a  time  have  been  fixed  in 
the  constitution  1  As  the  most  zealous  adversaries  of  the  plan  of 
the  convention  in  this  state,  are,  in  general,  not  less  zealous  ad- 
mirers of  the  constitution  of  the  state,  the  question  may  be  retort- 
ed and  it  may  be  asked,  why  was  not  a  lime  for  the  like  purpose 
fixed  in  the  constitution  of  this  state  ]  No  better  answer  can  be 
given,  than  that  it  was  a  matter  which  might  safely  be  entrusted 
to  legislative  discretion ;  and  that  if  a  time  had  been  appointed, 
it  might,  upon  experiment,  have  been  found  less  convenient  than 
some  other  time.  The  same  answer  may  be  given  to  the  question 
put  on  the  other  side.  And  it  may  be  added  that  the  supposed 
danger  of  a  gradual  change  being  merely  speculative,  it  would 
have  been  hardly  advisable  upon  that  speculation  to  establish,  as  a 
fundamental  point,  what  would  deprive  several  states  of  the  con- 
venience of  having  the  elections  for  their  own  governments,  and 
for  the  national  government,  at  the  same  epoch. 

PUBLIUS. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  307 

NO.  LXIT. 

By  JAMES  MADISON. 

Concerning  the  Constitution  of  the  Senate,  with  regard  to  the  Quali- 
Jications  of  the  Members ;  the  manner  of  Appointing  them ;  the 
Equality  of  Representation ;  the  Number  of  the  Senators ;  and 
the  Duration  of  their  Appointments. 

Having  examined  tlie  constitution  of  the  house  of  representa- 
tives, and  answered  such  of  the  objections  against  it  as  seemed  to 
merit  notice,  I  enter  next  on  the  examination  of  the  senate. 

The  heads,  under  which  this  member  of  the  government  may 
be  considered,  are,  I.  The  quahfications  of  senators  ;  2.  The  ap- 
pointment of  them  by  the  state  legislatures;  3.  Tiie  equality  of 
representation  in  the  senate  ;  4.  The  number  of  senators,  and  the 
term  for  which  they  are  to  be  elected  ;  5.  The  powers  vested  in 
the  senate, 

1.  The  qualifications  proposed  for  senators,  as  distinguished  . 
from  those  of  representatives,  consist  in  a  more  advanced  age,  and 
a  longer  period  of  citizenship.  A  senator  must  be  thirty  years  of 
age  at  least;  as  a  representative  must  be  twenty-five.  And  the 
former  must  Imve  been  a  citizen  nine  years;  as  seven  years  are 
required  for  the  latter.  The  propriety  of  these  distinctions  is  ex- 
plained by  the  nature  of  the  senatorial  trust ;  which,  requiring 
greater  extent  of  information  and  stability  of  character,  requires, 
at  the  same  time,  that  the  senator  should  have  reached  a  period  of 
life  most  likely  to  supply  these  advantages  ;  and  which,  partici- 
pating immediately  in  transactions  with  foreign  nations,  ought  to 
be  exercised  by  none  who  are  not  thoroughly  weaned  from  the  pre- 
possession and  habits  incident  to  foreign  birth  and  education. 
The  term  of  nine  years  appears  to  be  a  prudent  mediocrity  be- 
tween a  total  exclusion  of  adopted  citizens,  whose  merit  and  tal- 
ents may  claim  a  share  in  the  public  confidence,  and  an  indiscrim- 
inate and  hasty  admission  of  them,  which  might  create  a  channel 
for  foreign  influence  on  the  national  councils. 

2.  It  is  equally  unnecessary  to  dilate  on  the  appointment  of 
senators  by  the  state  legislatures.  Among  the  various  modes  which 
might  have  been  devised  for  constituting  this  branch  of  the  gov- 
ernment, that  which  has  been  proposed  by  the  convention  is  prob- 
ably the  most  congenial  with  the  public  opinion.  It  is  recom- 
mended by  the  double  advantage  of  favouring  a  select  appoint- 
ment, and  of  giving  to  the  state  governments  such  an  agency  in 
the  formation  of  the  federal  government,  as  must  secure  the  au- 


30S  THE  FEDERALIST. 

thoritj  of  the  former,  and  may  form  a  convenient  link  between 
the  two  systems. 

3.  The  equality  of  representation  in  the  senate  is  another  point, 
•which,  being  evidently  the  result  of  compromise  between  the  op- 
posite pretensions  of  the  large  and  the  sn)all  states,  does  not  call 
for  much  discussion.  If,  indeed,  it  be  right,  that  among  a  people 
thoroughly  incorporated  into  one  nation,  every  district  ought  to 
have  a  jrroportional  share  in  the  government ;  and  that  among  in- 
dependent and  sovereign  states,  bound  together  by  a  simple  league, 
the  parties,  however  unequal  in  size,  ought  to  have  an  equal  share 
in  the  common  councils ;  it  does  not  appear  to  be  without  some 
reason,  that  in  a  compound  republic,  partaking  both  of  the  nation- 
al and  federal  character,  the  government  ought  to  be  founded  on 
a  mixture  of  the  principles  of  proportional  and  equal  representa- 
tion. But  it  is  superfluous  to  try,  by  the  standard  of  theory,  a 
part  of  the  constitution  which  is  allowed  on  all  hands  to  be  the 
result,  not  of  theory,  but  "of  a  spirit  of  amity,  and  that  mutual 
"  deference  and  concession  which  the  peculiarity  of  our  political 
"  situation  rendered  indispensable."  A  common  government,  with 
powers  equal  to  its  objects,  is  called  for  by  the  voice,  and  still 
more  loudly  by  the  political  situation,  of  America.  A  government, 
founded  on  principles  more  consonant  to  the  wishes  of  the  larger 
states,  is  not  likely  to  be  obtained  from  the  smaller  states.  The 
only  option,  then,  for  the  former,  lies  between  the  proposed  gov- 
ernment, and  a  government  still  more  objectionable.  Under  this 
alternative,  the  advice  of  prudence  must  be,  to  embrace  the  lesser 
evil  ;  and,  instead  of  indulging  a  friutless  anticipation  of  the  pos- 
sible mischiefs  which  may  ensue,  to  contemplate  rather  the  advan- 
tageous consequences  which  may  qualify  the  sacrifice. 

In  this  spirit  it  may  be  remarked,  that  the  equal  vote  allowed  to 
each  state,  is  at  once  a  constitutional  recognition  of  the  portion  of 
sovereignty  remaining  in  the  individual  states,  and  an  instrument 
for  preserving  that  residuary  sovereignty.  So  far  the  equality 
ought  to  be  no  less  acceptable  to  the  large  than  to  the  small  states  ; 
since  they  are  not  less  solicitous  to  guard,  by  every  possible  expe- 
dient, against  an  improper  consolidation  of  the  states  into  one 
simple  republic. 

Another  advantage  accruing  from  this  ingredient  in  the  consti- 
tution of  the  senate  is,  the  additional  impediment  it  must  prove 
against  improper  acts  of  legislation.  No  law  or  resolution  can 
now  be  past  without  the  concurrence,  first,  of  a  majority  of  the 
people,  and,  then,  of  a  majority  of  the  states.  It  must  be  ac- 
knowledged that  this  complicated  check  on  legislation  may,  in 


THE  FEDERALIST.  309 

some  instances,  be  injurious  as  well  as  beneficial ;  and  that  the 
peculiar  defence  which  it  involves  in  favour  of  the  smaller  states, 
would  be  more  rational,  if  any  interests  common  to  them,  and  dis- 
tinct from  those  of  the  other  states,  would  otherwise  be  exposed 
to  peculiar  danger.  But  as  the  larger  states  will  always  be  able, 
by  their  power  over  the  supplies,  to  defeat  unreasonable  exertions 
of  this  prerogative  of  the  lesser  states ;  and  as  the  facility  and  ex- 
cess of  law-making  seem  to  be  the  diseases  to  which  our  govern- 
ments are  most  liable,  it  is  not  impossible  that  this  part  of  the 
constitution  may  be  more  convenient  in  practice,  than  it  appears 
to  many  in  contemplation. 

4.  The  number  of  senators,  and  the  duration  of  their  appoint- 
ment, come  next  to  be  considered.  In  order  to  form  an  accurate 
judgment  on  both  these  points,  it  will  be  proper  to  inquire  into  the 
purposes  which  are  to  be  answered  by  a  senate ;  and  in  order  to 
ascertain  these,  it  will  be  necessary  to  review  the  inconveniences 
which  a  republic  must  suffer  from  the  want  of  such  an  institution. 

First.  It  is  a  misfortune  incident  to  republican  government, 
though  in  a  less  degree  than  to  other  governments,  that  those  who 
administer  it  may  forget  their  obligations  to  their  constituents, 
and  prove  unfaithful  to  their  important  trust.  In  this  point  of 
view,  a  senate,  as  a  second  branch  of  the  legislative  assembly, 
distinct  from,  and  dividing  the  power  with,  a  first,  must  be  in  all 
cases  a  salutary  check  on  the  government.  It  doubles  the  security 
to  the  people,  by  requiring  the  concurrence  of  two  distinct  bodies 
in  schemes  of  usurpation  or  perfidy,  where  the  ambition  or  cor- 
ruption of  one  would  otherwise  be  sufficient.  This  is  a  precau- 
tion founded  on  such  clear  principles,  and  now  so  well  understood 
in  the  United  States,  that  it  would  be  more  than  superfluous  to  en- 
large on  it.  I  will  barely  remark,  that  as  the  improbability  of 
sinister  combinations  will  be  in  proportion  to  the  dissimilarity  in 
the  genius  of  the  two  bodies,  it  must  be  politic  to  distinguish  them 
from  each  other  by  every  circumstance  which  will  consist  with  a 
due  harmony  in  all  proper  measures,  and  with  the  genuine  princi- 
ples of  republican  government. 

Second.  The  necessity  of  a  senate  is  not  less  indicated  by  the 
propensity  of  all  single  and  numerous  assemblies,  to  yield  to  the 
impulse  of  sudden  and  violent  passions,  and  to  be  seduced  by  fac- 
tious leaders  into  intemperate  and  pernicious  resolutions.  Exam- 
ples on  this  subject  might  be  cited  without  number  ;  and  from  pro- 
ceedings within  the  United  States,  as  well  as  from  the  history  of 
other  nations.  But  a  position  that  will  not  be  contradicted,  need 
not  to  be  proved.     All  that  need  be  remarked  is,  that  a  body  which 


310  THE  FEDERALIST. 

is  to  correct  this  infirmity,  ought  itself  to  be  free  from  it,  and 
consequently  ought  to  be  less  numerOuis.  It  ought  moreover  to 
possess  great  firmness,  and  consiquf-ntly  ought  to  hold  its  authori- 
ty by  a  tenure  of  considerable  duration. 

Third.  Another  defect  to  be  sui)plied  by  a  senate,  lies  in  a  want 
of  due  acquaintance  with  the  objects  and  principles  of  legislation. 
It  is  not  possible  that  an  assembly  of  men,  called  for  the  most 
part  from  pursuits  of  a  private  nature,  continued  in  appointment 
for  a  short  time,  and  led  by  no  permanent  motive  to  devote  the 
intervals  of  public  occupation  to  a  study  of  the  laws,  the  affairs, 
and  the  comprehensive  interests  of  their  country,  should,  if  left 
wholly  to  themselves,  escape  a  variety  of  important  errours  in  the 
exercise  of  their  legislative  trust.  It  may  be  affirmed,  on  the  best 
grounds,  that  no  small  share  of  tlie  prespnt  embarrassments  of 
America  is  to  be  charged  on  the  blunders  of  our  governments  ;  and 
that  these  have  proceedc^d  from  the  heads  rather  than  the  hearts  of 
most  of  the  authors  of  them.  What,  indeed,  are  all  the  repealing, 
explaining,  and  amending  laws,  which  fill  and  disgrace  our  volum- 
inous codes,  but  so  many  monuments  of  deficient  wisdom;  so 
many  impeachments  exhibited  by  each  succeeding,  against  each 
preceding  session  ;  so  many  admonitions  to  the  people,  of  the 
value  of  those  aids  which  may  be  expected  from  a  well-constituted 
senate. 

A  good  government  implies  two  things:  first,  fidelity  to  the  ob- 
ject of  government,  which  is  the  happiness  of  the  people  ;  second- 
ly, a  knowledge  of  the  means  by  which  that  object  can  be  best  at- 
tained. Some  governments  are  deficient  in  both  these  qualities  : 
most  governments  are  deficient  in  the  first.  I  scruple  not  to  as- 
sert, that  in  American  governments,  too  little  attention  has  been 
paid  to  the  last.  The  federal  constitution  avoids  this  errour :  and 
what  merits  particular  notice,  it  provides  for  the  last  in  a  mode 
which  increases  the  security  for  the  first. 

Fourth.  The  mutability  in  the  puhlic  councils,  arising  from  a 
rapid  succession  of  new  members,  however  qualified  they  may  be, 
points  out,  in  the  strongest  manner,  the  necessity  of  some  stable 
institution  in  the  government.  Every  new  election  in  the  states, 
is  found  to  change  one  half  of  the  representatives.  From  this 
change  of  men  must  proceed  a  change  of  opinions  ;  and  from  a 
change  of  opinions,  a  change  of  measures.  But  a  continual  change 
even  of  good  measures  is  inconsistent  with  every  rule  of  prudence, 
and  every  prospect  of  success.  The  remark  is  verified  in  private 
life,  and  becomes  more  just,  as  well  as  more  important  in  national 
transactions. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  311 

To  trace  the  mischievous  effects  of  a  mutable  government  would 
fill  a  vokime.  I  will  liint  a  few  only,  each  of  which  will  be  per- 
ceived to  be  a  source  of  innumerable  others. 

In  the  first  place,  it  forfeits  the  respect  and  confidence  of  other 
nations,  and  all  the  advantages  connected  with  national  character. 
An  individual  who  is  observed  to  be  inconsistent  to  his  plans,  or 
perhaps,  to  carry  on  his  affairs  without  any  plan  at  all,  is  marked 
at  once  by  all  prudent  people,  as  a  speedy  victim  to  his  own  un- 
steadiness and  folly.  His  more  friendly  neighbours  may  pity  him, 
but  all  will  decline  to  connect  their  fortunes  with  his  :  and  not  a 
few  will  seize  the  opportunity  of  making  their  fortunes  out  of  his. 
One  nation  is  to  another,  what  one  individual  is  to  another  ;  with 
this  melancholy  distinction,  perhaps,  that  the  former,  with  fewer 
of  the  benevolent  emotions  than  the  latter,  are  under  fewer  re- 
straints also  from  taking  undue  advantage  from  the  indiscretions 
of  each  other.  Every  nation,  consequently,  whose  affairs  betray 
a  want  of  wisdom  and  stability,  may  calculate  on  every  loss  which 
can  be  sustained  from  the  more  systematic  policy  of  its  wiser  neigh- 
bours. But  the  best  instruction  on  this  subject  is  unhappily  con- 
veyed to  America  by  the  example  of  her  own  situation.  She  finds 
that  she  is  held  in  no  respect  by  her  friends  ;  that  she  is  the  de- 
rision of  her  enemies  ;  and  that  she  is  a  prey  to  every  nation  which 
has  an  interest  in  speculating  on  her  fluctuating  councils  and  em- 
barrassed affairs. 

The  internal  effects  of  a  mutable  policy  are  still  more  calamit- 
ous. It  poisons  the  blessings  of  liberty  itself  It  will  be  of  little 
avail  to  the  people,  that  the  laws  are  made  by  men  of  their  own 
choice,  if  the  laws  be  so  voluminous  that  they  cannot  be  read,  or 
so  incoherent  that  they  cannot  be  understood  ;  if  they  be  repealed 
or  revised  before  they  are  promulged,  or  undergo  such  incessant 
changes,  that  no  man,  who  knows  what  the  law  is  to-day,  can 
guess  what  it  will  be  to-morrow.  Law  is  defined  to  be  a  rule  of 
action  :  but  how  can  that  be  a  rule  which  is  little  known,  and  less 
fixed  ] 

Another  effect  of  public  instability  is  the  unreasonable  advant- 
age it  gives  to  the  sagacious,  the  enterprising,  and  the  moneyed 
few,  over  the  industrious  and  uninformed  mass  of  the  people.  Ev- 
ery new  regulation  concerning  commerce  or  revenue,  or  in  any 
manner  affecting  the  value  of  the  difterent  species  of  property, 
presents  a  new  harvest  to  those  who  watch  the  change  and  can 
trace  the  consequences ;  a  harvest,  reared  not  by  themselves,  but 
by  the  toils  and  cares  of  the  great  body  of  their  fellow-citizens. 


0i&lt;2  THE  FEDERALIST. 

This  is  a  state  of  things,  in  which  it  may  be  said,  with  some  truth, 
that  laws  are  made  for  the  few,  not  for  the  many. 

In  another  point  of  view,  great  injury  results  from  an  unstable 
government.  The  want  of  confidence  in  the  public  councils  damps 
every  useful  undertaking,  the  success  and  profit  of  which  may  de- 
pend on  a  continuance  of  existing  arrangements.  What  prudent 
merchant  will  hazard  his  fortunes  in  any  new  branch  of  commerce, 
when  he  knows  not  but  that  his  plans  may  be  rendered  unlawful 
before  they  can  be  executed  ?  What  farmer  or  manufacturer  will 
lay  himself  out  for  the  encouragement  given  to  any  particular  cul- 
tivation or  establishment,  when  he  can  have  no  assurance,  that  his 
preparatory  labours  and  advances  will  not  render  him  a  victim  to 
an  inconstant  government?  In  a  word,  no  great  improvement  or 
laudable  enterprise  can  go  forward,  which  requires  the  auspices  of 
a  steady  system  of  national  policy. 

But  the  most  deplorable  eflfect  of  all,  is  that  diminution  of  at- 
tachment and  reverence,  which  steals  into  the  hearts  of  the  people, 
towards  a  political  system  which  betrays  so  many  marks  of  infirmi- 
ty, and  disappoints  so  many  of  their  flattering  hopes.  No  gov- 
ernment, any  more  than  an  individual,  will  long  be  respected, 
without  being  truly  respectable;  nor  be  truly  respectable,  without 
possessing  a  certain  portion  of  order  and  stability. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXIII. 
By  JAMES  MADISON. 


A  further  View  of  the  Constitution  of  the  Senate,  in  regard  to  the 
Duration  of  the  Appointment  of  its  Members. 

A  FIFTH  desideratum,  illustrating  the  utility  of  a  senate,  is  the 
want  of  a  due  sense  of  national  character.  Without  a  select  and 
stable  member  of  the  government,  the  esteem  of  foreign  powers 
will  not  only  be  forfeited  by  an  unenlightened  and  variable  policy, 
proceeding  from  the  causes  already  mentioned;  but  the  national 
councils  w  ill  not  possess  that  sensibility  to  the  opinion  of  the  world, 
which  is,  perhaps,  not  less  necessary  in  order  to  merit,  than  it  is 
to  obtain  its  respect  and  confidence. 

An  attention  to  the  judgment  of  other  nations  is  important  to 
every  government,  for  two  reasons :  the  one  is,  that  independently 
of  the  merits  of  any  particular  plan  or  measure,  it  is  desirable,  on 
various  accounts,  that  it  should  appear  to  other  nations  as  the  off- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  313 

spring  of  a  wise  and  honourable  policy  :  the  second  is,  that  in 
doubtful  cases,  particularly  where  the  national  councils  may  be 
warped  by  some  strong  passion,  or  momentary  interest,  the  presum- 
ed or  known  opinion  of  the  impartial  world  may  be  the  best  guide 
that  can  be  followed.  What  has  not  America  lost  by  her  v.  aut  of 
character  with  foreign  nations;  and  how  many  errours  and  follies 
would  she  not  have  avoided,  if  the  justice  and  propriety  of  her 
measures  had,  in  every  instance,  been  previously  tried  by  the  light 
in  which  they  would  probable  appear  to  the  unbiased  part  of  man- 
kind ! 

Yet  however  requisite  a  sense  of  national  character  may  be,  it 
is  evident  that  it  can  never  be  sutficiently  possessed  by  a  numer- 
ous and  changeable  body.  It  can  only  be  found  in  a  number  so 
small,  that  a  sensible  degree  of  the  praise  and  blame  of  public 
measures  may  be  the  portion  of  each  individual ;  or  in  an  assem- 
bly so  durably  invested  with  public  trust,  that  the  pride  and  con- 
sequence of  its  members  may  be  sensibly  incorporated  with  the 
reputation  and  prosperity  of  the  community.  The  half-yearly 
representatives  of  Rhode  Island  would  probably  have  been  little 
aifected  in  their  deliberations  on  the  iniquitous  measures  of  that 
state,  by  arguments  drawn  from  the  light  in  which  such  measures 
would  be  viewed  by  foreign  nations,  or  even  by  the  sister  states  ; 
whilst  it  can  scarcely  be  doubted,  that  if  the  concurrence  of  a  se- 
lect and  stable  body  had  been  necessary,  a  regard  to  national 
character  alone  would  have  prevented  the  calamities  under  which 
that  misguided  people  is  now  labouring. 

I  add,  as  a  sixth  defect,  the  want  in  some  important  cases  of  a 
due  responsibility  in  the  government  to  the  people,  arising  from 
that  frequency  of  elections,  which  in  other  cases  produces  this  re- 
sponsibility. The  remark  will,  perhaps,  appear  not  only  new,  but 
paradoxical.  It  must  nevertheless  be  acknowledged,  when  ex- 
plained, to  be  as  undeniable  as  it  is  important. 

Responsibility,  in  order  to  be  reasonable,  must  be  limited  to 
objects  within  the  power  of  the  responsible  party;  and,  in  order 
to  be  effectual,  must  relate  to  operations  of  that  power,  of  which 
a  ready  and  proper  judgment  can  be  formed  by  the  constituents. 
The  objects  of  government  may  be  divided  into  two  general  class- 
es :  the  one  depending  on  measures,  which  have  singly  an  imme- 
diate and  sensible  operation  ;  the  other  depending  on  a  succession 
of  well-chosen  and  well-connected  measures,  which  have  a  gradu- 
al and  perhaps  unobserved  operation.  The  importance  of  thj 
latter  description  to  the  collective  and  permanent  welfare  of  every 
country,  needs  no  explanation.  And  yet  it  is  evident,  that  an  as- 
38 


314  THE  FEDERALIST. 

semblj  elected  for  so  short  a  term  as  to  be  unable  to  provide  more 
than  one  or  two  links  in  a  chain  of  measures,  on  which  the  gen- 
eral welfare  may  essentially  depend,  ought  not  to  be  answerable 
for  the  final  result,  any  more  than  a  steward  or  tenant,  engaged 
for  one  year,  could  be  justly  made  to  answer  for  plans  or  improve- 
ments which  could  not  be  accomplished  in  less  than  half  a  dozen 
years.  Nor  is  it  possible  for  the  people  to  estimate  the  share  of 
influence,  which  their  annual  assemblies  may  respectively  have  on 
events  resulting  from  the  mixed  transactions  of  several  years.  It 
is  sufficiently  difficult,  to  preserve  a  personal  responsibility  in  the 
members  of  a  numerous  body,  for  such  acts  of  the  body  as  have 
an  immediate,  detached,  and  palpable  operation  on  its  constittt- 
ents. 

The  proper  remedy  for  this  defect  must  be  an  additional  body 
in  the  legislative  department,  which,  having  sufficient  permanency 
to  provide  for  such  objects  as  require  a  continued  attention,  and  a 
train  of  measures,  may  be  justly  and  effectually  answerable  for 
the  attainment  of  those  objects. 

Thus  far  I  have  considered  the  circumstances  which  point  out 
the  necessity  of  a  well-constructed  senate,  only  as  they  relate  to 
the  representatives  of  the  people.  To  a  people  as  little  blinded 
by  prejudice,  or  corrupted  by  flattery,  as  those  whom  I  address,  I 
shall  not  scruple  to  add,  that  such  an  institution  may  be  sometimes 
necessary,  as  a  defence  to  the  people  against  their  own  temporary 
errours  and  delusions.  As  the  cool  and  deliberate  sense  of  the 
community  ought,  in  all  governments,  and  actually  will,  in  all  free 
governments,  ultimately  prevail  over  the  views  of  its  rulers  ;  so 
there  are  particular  moments  in  public  affairs,  when  the  people, 
stimulated  by  some  irregular  passion,  or  some  illicit  advantage,  or 
misled  by  the  artful  misrepresentations  of  interested  men,  may 
call  for  measures  which  they  themselves  will  afterwards  be  the 
most  ready  to  lament  and  condemn.  In  these  critical  moments, 
how  salutary  will  be  the  interference  of  some  temperate  and  re- 
spectable body  of  citizens,  in  order  to  check  the  misguided  career, 
and  to  suspend  the  blow  meditated  by  the  people  against  them- 
selves, until  reason,  justice,  and  truth,  can  regain  their  authority 
over  the  public  mind?  What  bitter  anguish  would  not  the  people  of 
Athens  have  often  escaped,  if  their  government  had  contained  so 
provident  a  safeguard  against  the  tyranny  of  their  own  passions  ! 
Popular  liberty  might  then  have  escaped  the  indelible  reproach  of 
decreeing  to  the  same  citizens  the  hemlock  on  one  day,  and  stat- 
ues on  the  next- 
It  may  be  suggested,  that  a  people  spread  over  an  extensive 


THE  FEDERALIST.  315 

region  cannot,  like  the  crowded  inhabitants  of  a  small  district,  be 
subject  to  the  infection  of  violent  passions;  or  to  the  danger  of 
combining  in  the  pursuit  of  unjust  measures.  I  am  far  from  de- 
nying, that  this  is  a  distinction  of  peculiar  importance.  I  have, 
on  the  contrary,  endeavoured  in  a  former  paper  to  show,  that  it  is 
one  of  the  principal  recommendations  of  a  confederated  republic. 
At  the  same  time,  this  advantage  ought  not  to  be  considered  as  su- 
perseding the  use  of  auxiliary  precautions.  It  may  even  be  re- 
marked, that  the  same  extended,  situation,  which  will  exempt  the 
people  of  America  from  some  of  the  dangers  incident  to  lesser  re- 
publics, will  expose  them  to  the  inconveniency  of  remaining,  for 
a  louffer  time,  under  the  influence  of  those  misrepresentations 
which  the  combined  industry  of  interested  men  may  succeed  in 
distributing  among  them. 

It  adds  no  small  weight  to  all  these  considerations,  to  recollect, 
that  history  informs  us  of  no  longlived  republic,  which  had  not  a 
senate.  Sparta,  Rome,  and  Carthage  are,  in  fact,  the  only  states 
to  whom  that  character  can  be  applied.  In  each  of  the  two  first, 
there  was  a  senate  for  life.  The  constitution  of  the  senate  in  the 
last  is  less  known.  Circumstantial  evidence  makes  it  probable, 
that  it  was  not  different  in  this  particular  from  the  two  others. 
It  is  at  least  certain,  that  it  had  some  quality  or  other,  which  ren- 
dered it  an  anchor  against  popular  fluctuations  ;  and  that  a  small- 
er council,  drawn  out  of  the  senate,  was  appointed  not  only  for 
life,  but  filled  up  vacancies  itself.  These  examples,  though  as  un- 
fit for  the  imitation,  as  they  are  repugnant  to  the  genius,  of  Ameri- 
ca, are,  notwithstanding,  when  compared  with  the  fugitive  and 
turbulent  existence  of  other  ancient  republics,  very  instructive 
proofs  of  the  necessity  of  some  institution  that  will  blend  stability 
with  liberty.  I  am  not  unaware  of  the  circumstances  which  dis- 
tinguish the  American  from  other  popular  governments,  as  well 
ancient  as  modern  ;  and  which  render  extreme  circumspection 
necessary,  in  reasoning  from  the  one  case  to  the  other.  But  after 
allowing  due  weight  to  this  consideration,  it  may  still  be  maintained, 
that  there  are  many  points  of  similitude  which  render  these  ex- 
amples not  unworthy  of  our  attention.  Many  of  the  defects,  as 
we  have  seen,  which  can  only  be  supplied  by  a  senatorial  institu- 
tion, are  common  to  a  numerous  assembly  frequently  elected  by 
the  people,  and  to  the  people  themselves.  There  are  others  pecu- 
liar to  the  former,  which  require  the  control  of  such  an  institutiort 
The  people  can  never  wilfully  betray  their  own  interests  :  but  they 
may  possibly  be  betrayed  by  the  representatives  of  the  people  ; 
and  the  danger  will  be  evidently  greater,  where  the  whole  legisla- 


316  THE  FEDERALIST. 

tive  trust  is  lodged  in  the  hands  of  one  body  of  men,  than  where 
the  concurrence  of  separate  and  dissimilar  bodies  is  required  in 
every  public  act. 

The  difference  most  relied  on,  between  the  American  and  other 
republics,  consists  in  the  principle  of  representation  ;  which  is  the 
pivot  on  which  the  former  move,  and  which  is  supposed  to  have 
been  unknown  to  the  latter,  or  at  least  to  the  ancient  part  of  them. 
The  use  which  has  been  made  of  this  difference,  in  reasonings 
contained  in  former  papers,  will  have  shown,  that  I  am  disposed 
neither  to  deny  its  existence,  nor  to  undervalue  its  importance.  I 
feel  the  less  restraint,  therefore,  in  observing,  that  the  position 
concerning  the  ignorance  of  the  ancient  governments  on  the  sub- 
ject of  representation,  is  by  no  means  precisely  true,  in  the  lati- 
tude commonly  given  to  it.  Without  entering  into  a  disquisition 
which  here  would  be  misplaced,  I  will  refer  to  a  few  known  facts, 
in  support  of  what  I  advance. 

In  the  most  pure  democracies  of  Greece,  many  of  the  executive 
functions  were  performed,  not  by  the  people  themselves,  but  by 
officers  elected  by  the  people,  and  representing  them  in  their  execu- 
tive capacity. 

Prior  to  the  reform  of  Solon,  Athens  was  governed  by  nine 
archons,  annually  elected  hy  the  people  at  large.  The  degree  of 
power,  delegated  to  them,  seems  to  be  left  in  great  obscurity.  Sub- 
sequent to  that  period,  we  find  an  assembly,  first  of  four,  and  af- 
terwards of  si::  hundred  members,  annually  elected  hy  the  people  ; 
and  partially  representing  them  in  their  legislative  capacity,  since 
they  were  not  only  associated  with  the  people  in  the  function  of 
making  laws,  but  had  the  exclusive  right  of  originating  legislative 
propositions  to  the  people.  The  senate  of  Carthage,  also,  what- 
ever might  be  its  power,  or  the  duration  of  its  appointment,  ap- 
pears to  have  been  elective  by  the  suftVages  of  the  people.  Simi- 
lar instances  might  be  traced  in  most,  if  not  all  the  popular  gov- 
ernments of  antiquity. 

Lastly,  in  Sparta,  we  meet  with  the  ephori,  and  in  Rome  with 
the  tribunes  ;  two  bodies,  small  indeed  in  number,  but  annually 
elected  by  the  whole  body  of  the  people  and  considered  as  the  repre- 
sentatives of  the  people,  almost  in  their  plenipotentiary  capacity. 
The  cosmi  of  Crete  were  also  annually  elected  by  the  people;  and 
have  been  considered  by  some  authors  as  an  institution  analogous 
to  tliose  of  Sparta  and  Rome,  with  this  difference  only,  that  in  the 
election  of  that  representative  body,  the  right  of  suffrage  was  com- 
municated to  a  part  only  of  the  people. 

From  these  facts,  to  which  many  others  might  be  added,  it  is 


THE  FEDERALIST.  317 

clear  that  the  principle  of  representation  was  neither  unknown  to 
the  ancients,  nor  wholly  overlooked  in  their  political  constitutions. 
The  true  distinction  between  these  and  the  American  governments, 
lies  in  the  total  exclusion  of  the  people,  in  their  collective  capacity, 
from  any  share  in  the  latter,  and  not  in  the  total  exclusion  of  the 
representatives  of  the  people  from  the  administration  of  the  former. 
The  distinction,  however,  thus  qualified,  must  be  admitted  to  leave 
a  most  advantageous  superiority  in  favour  of  the  United  States. 
But  to  ensure  to  this  advantage  its  full  effect,  we  must  be  careful 
not  to  separate  it  from  the  other  advantage,  of  an  extensive  terri- 
tory. For  it  cannot  be  believed,  that  any  form  of  representative 
government  could  have  succeeded  within  the  narrow  limits  occu- 
pied by  the  democracies  of  Greece. 

In  answer  to  all  these  arguments,  suggested  by  reason,  illus- 
trated by  examples,  and  enforced  by  our  own  experience,  the 
jealous  adversary  of  the  constitution  will  probably  content  himself 
with  repeating,  that  a  senate  appointed  not  immediately  by  the 
people,  and  for  the  term  of  six  years,  must  gradually  acquire  a 
dangerous  preeminence  in  the  government,  and  finally  transform 
it  into  a  tyrannical  aristocracy. 

To  this  general  answer,  the  general  reply  ought  to  be  sufficient; 
that  liberty  may  be  endangered  by  the  abuses  of  liberty,  as  well 
as  by  the  abuses  of  power  ;  that  there  are  numerous  instances  of 
the  former  as  well  as  of  the  latter  ;  and  that  the  former,  rather 
than  the  latter,  is  apparently  most  to  be  apprehended  by  the  Unit- 
ed States.     But  a  more  particular  reply  may  be  given. 

Before  such  a  revolution  can  be  effected,  the  senate,  it  is  to  be 
observed,  must  in  the  first  place  corrupt  itself;  must  next  corrupt 
the  state  legislatures  ;  must  then  corrupt  the  house  of  representa- 
tives ;  and  must  finally  corrupt  the  people  at  large.  It  is  evident, 
that  the  senate  must  be  first  corrupted,  before  it  can  attempt  an 
establishment  of  tyranny.  Without  corrupting  the  legislatures,  it 
cannot  prosecute  the  attempt,  because  the  periodical  change  of 
members  would  otherwise  regenerate  the  whole  body.  Without 
exerting  the  means  of  corruption  with  equal  success  on  the  house 
of  representatives,  the  opposition  of  that  coequal  branch  of  the 
government  would  inevitably  defeat  the  attempt  ;  and  without  cor- 
rupting the  people  themselves,  a  succession  of  new  representatives 
would  speedily  restore  all  things  to  their  pristine  order.  Is  there 
any  man  who  can  seriously  persuade  himself,  that  the  proposed 
senate  can,  by  any  possible  means  within  the  compass  of  human 
address,  arrive  at  the  object  of  a  lawless  ambition,  through  all 
these  obstructions  ? 


318  THE  FEDERALIST. 

If  reason  condemns  the  suspicion,  the  same  sentence  is  pro- 
nounced by  experience.  The  constitution  of  Maryland  furnishes 
the  most  apposite  example.  The  senate  of  that  state  is  elected, 
as  the  federal  senate  will  be,  indirectly  by  the  people  ;  and  for  a 
term  less  by  one  year  only  than  the  federal  senate.  It  is  distin- 
guished, also,  by  the  remarkable  prerogative  of  filling  up  its  own 
vacancies  within  the  term  of  its  appointment;  and  at  the  same 
time,  is  not  under  the  control  of  any  such  rotation  as  is  provided 
for  the  federal  senate.  There  are  some  other  lesser  distinctions, 
which  would  expose  the  former  to  colourable  objections  that  do 
not  lie  against  the  latter.  If  the  federal  senate,  therefore,  really 
contained  the  danger  which  has  been  so  loudly  proclaimed,  some 
symptoms  at  least  of  a  like  danger  ought  by  this  time  to  have  been 
betrayed  by  the  senate  of  Maryland  :  but  no  such  symptoms  have 
appeared.  On  the  contrary,  the  jealousies  at  first  entertained  by 
men  of  the  same  description  with  those  who  view  with  terrour  the 
correspondent  part  of  the  federal  constitution,  have  been  gradual- 
ly extinguished  by  the  progress  of  experiment ;  and  the  Maryland 
constitution  is  daily  deriving,  from  the  salutary  operation  of  this 
part  of  it,  a  reputation  in  which  it  will  probably  not  be  rivalled  by 
that  of  any  state  in  the  union. 

But  if  any  thing  could  silence  the  jealousies  on  this  subject  it 
ought  to  be  the  British  example.  The  senate  there,  instead  of  be- 
ing elected  for  a  term  of  six  years,  and  of  being  unconfined  to 
particular  families  or  fortunes,  is  an  hereditary  assembly  of  opu- 
lent nobles.  The  house  of  representatives,  instead  of  being  elect- 
ed for  two  years,  and  by  the  whole  body  of  the  people,  is  elected 
for  seven  years:  and  in  very  great  proportion,  by  a  very  small 
proportion  of  the  people.  Here,  unquestionably,  ought  to  be  seen 
in  full  display  the  aristocratic  usurpations  and  tyranny  which  are 
at  some  future  period  to  be  exemplified  in  the  United  States.  Un- 
fortunately, however,  for  the  anti-federal  argument,  the  British 
history  informs  us,  that  this  hereditary  assembly  has  not  even  been 
able  to  defend  itself  against  the  continual  encroachments  of  the 
house  of  representatives  ;  and  that  it  no  sooner  lost  the  support  of 
the  monarch,  than  it  was  actually  crushed  by  the  weight  of  the 
popular  branch. 

As  far  as  antiquity  can  instruct  us  on  this  subject,  its  examples 
support  the  reasoning  which  we  have  employed.  In  Sparta  the 
ephori,  the  annual  representatives  of  the  people,  were  found  an 
overmatch  for  the  senate  for  life;  continually  gained  on  its  au- 
thority, and  finally  drew  all  power  into  their  own  hands.  The 
tribunes  of  Rome,  who  were   the   representatives  of  the  people, 


THE  FEDERALIST.  319 

prevailed,  it  is  well  known,  in  almost  every  contest  with  the  senate 
for  life,  and  in  the  end  gained  the  most  complete  triumph  over  it. 
This  fact  is  the  more  remarkahle,  as  unanimity  was  required  in 
every  act  of  the  tribunes,  even  after  their  number  was  augmented 
to  ten.  It  proves  the  irresistible  force  possessed  by  that  branch  of 
a  free  government,  which  has  the  people  on  its  side.  To  these 
examples  might  be  added  that  of  Carthage,  whose  senate,  accord- 
ing to  the  testimony  of  Polybius,  instead  of  drawing  all  power 
into  its  vortex,  had  at  the  commencement  of  the  second  punic 
war,  lost  almost  the  whole  of  its  original  portion. 

Besides  the  conclusive  evidence  resulting  from  this  assemblage 
of  facts,  that  the  federal  senate  will  never  be  able  to  transform 
itself,  by  gradual  usurpations,  into  an  independent  and  aristocra- 
tic body ;  we  are  warranted  in  believing,  that  if  such  a  revolution 
should  ever  happen  from  causes  which  the  foresight  of  man  can- 
not guard  against,  the  house  of  representatives,  with  the  people 
on  their  side,  will  at  all  times  be  able  to  bring  back  the  constitu- 
tion to  its  primitive  form  and  principles.  Against  the  force  of  the 
immediate  representatives  of  the  people,  nothing  will  be  able  to 
maintain  even  the  constitutional  authority  of  the  senate,  but  such 
a  display  of  enliiihtened  policy,  and  attachment  to  the  public  good, 
as  will  divide  with  that  branch  of  the  legislature  the  affections  and 
support  of  the  entire  body  of  the  people  themselves. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXIV. 

BY  JOHN  JAY. 

A  further  View  of  the  Constitution  of  the  Senate,  in   regard  to  the 
Power  of  making  Treaties. 

It  is  a  just,  and  not  a  new  observation,  that  enemies  to  particu- 
lar persons,  and  opponents  to  particular  measures,  seldom  confine 
their  censures  to  such  things  only  in  either,  as  are  worthy  of  blame. 
Unless  on  this  principle,  it  is  difficult  to  explain  the  motives  of 
their  conduct,  who  condemn  the  proposed  constitution  in  the  ag- 
gregate, and  treat  with  severity  some  of  the  most  unexceptionable 
articles  in  it. 

The  second  section  gives  power  to  the  president,  "  hy  and  with 
*&lt;■  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  senate,   to   make  treaties,  provided 

t(  ,j,yfQ   XHIRDS  OF  THE  SENATORS  PRESENT  CONCUR." 

The  power  of  making  treaties  is  an  important  cue,  especially 


320  THE  FEDERALIST. 

as  it  relates  to  war,  peace,  and  commerce  ;  and  it  should  not  be 
delep;ated  but  in  such  a  mode,  and  with  such  precautions,  as  will 
aftbrd  the  liighest  security,  that  it  will  be  exercised  by  men  the 
best  qualified  for  the  purpose,  and  in  the  manner  most  conducive 
to  the  public  good.  The  convention  appear  to  have  been  attentive 
to  both  these  points  :  they  have  directed  the  president  to  be  chosen 
by  select  bodies  of  electors,  to  be  deputed  by  the  people  for  that 
express  purpose ;  and  they  have  committed  the  appointment  of 
senators  to  the  state  legislatures.  This  mode  has,  in  such  cases, 
vastly  the  advantage  of  elections  by  the  people  in  their  collective 
capacity,  where  the  activity  of  party  zeal,  taking  advantage  of 
the  snpineness,  the  ignorance,  the  hopes,  and  fears  of  the  unwary 
and  interested,  often  places  men  in  office  by  the  votes  of  a  small 
proportion  of  the  electors. 

As  the  select  assemblies  for  choosing  the  president,  as  well  as 
the  state  legislatures  who  appoint  the  senators,  will,  in  general,  be 
composed  of  the  most  enlightened  and  respectable  citizens,  there 
is  reason  to  presume,  that  their  attention  and  their  votes  will  be 
directed  to  those  men  only  who  have  become  the  most  distinguish- 
ed by  their  abilities  and  virtue,  and  in  whom  the  people  perceive 
just  grounds  for  confidence.  The  constitution  manifests  very  par- 
ticular attention  to  this  object.  By  excluding  men  under  thirty- 
five  from  the  first  office,  and  those  under  thirty  from  the  second,  it 
confines  the  elections  to  men  of  whom  the  people  have  had  time  to 
form  a  judgment,  and  with  respect  to  whom  they  will  not  be  liable  to 
be  deceived  by  those  brilliant  appearances  of  genius  and  patriotism, 
which,  like  transient  meteors,  sometimes  mislead  as  well  as  dazzle. 
If  the  observation  be  well  founded,  that  wise  kings  will  always  be 
served  by  able  ministers,  it  is  fair  to  argue,  that  as  an  assembly  of 
select  electors  possess,  in  a  greater  degree  than  kings,  the  means 
of  extensive  and  accurate  information  relative  to  men  and  charac- 
ters ;  so  will  their  appointments  bear  at  least  equal  marks  of  dis- 
cretion and  discernment.  The  inference  which  naturally  results 
from  these  considerations  is  this,  that  the  president  and  senators 
so  chosen  will  always  be  of  the  number  of  those  who  best  under- 
stand our  national  interests,  whether  considered  in  relation  to  the 
several  states  or  to  foreign  nations,  who  are  best  able  to  promote 
those  interests,  and  whose  reputation  for  integrity  inspires  and 
merits  confidence.  With  such  men  the  power  of  making  treaties 
may  be  safely  lodged. 

Although  the  absolute  necessity  of  system,  in  the  conduct  of 
any  business,  is  universally  known  and  acknowledged,  yet  the 
high  importance  of  it  in  national  affairs,  has  not  yet  become  suffi- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  321 

ciently  impressed  on  the  public  mind.  They  who  wish  to  commit 
the  power  under  consideration  to  a  popular  assembly,  composed 
of  members  constantly  coming  and  going  in  quick  succession, 
seem  not  to  recollect,  that  such  a  body  must  necessarily  be  inade- 
quate to  the  attainment  of  those  great  objects,  which  require  to  be 
steadily  contemplated  in  all  their  relations  and  circumstances,  and 
which  can  only  be  approached  and  achieved  by  measures,  which 
not  only  talents,  but  also  exact  information,  and  often  much  time, 
are  necessary  to  concert  and  to  execute.  It  was  wise,  therefore, 
in  the  convention  to  provide,  not  only  that  the  power  of  making 
treaties  should  be  committed  to  able  and  honest  men,  but  also  that 
they  should  continue  in  place  a  sufficient  time  to  become  perfectly 
acquainted  with  our  national  concerns,  and  to  form  and  introduce 
a  system  for  the  management  of  them.  The  duration  prescribed 
is  such  as  will  give  them  an  opportunity  of  greatly  extending  their 
political  information,  and  of  rendering  their  accumulating  expe- 
rience more  and  more  beneficial  to  their  country.  Nor  has  the 
convention  discovered  less  prudence,  in  providing  for  the  frequent 
elections  of  senators  in  such  a  way,  as  to  obviate  the  inconven- 
ience of  periodically  transferring  those  great  affairs  entirely  to 
new  men  :  for  by  leaving  a  considerable  residue  of  the  old  ones  in 
place,  uniformity  and  order,  as  well  as  a  constant  succession  of 
official  information,  will  be  preserved. 

There  are  few  who  will  not  admit,  that  the  affairs  of  trade  and 
navigation  should  be  regulated  by  a  system  cautiously  formed  and 
steadily  pursued  ;  and  that  both  our  treaties  and  our  laws  should 
correspond  with  and  be  made  to  promote  it.  It  is  of  much  con- 
sequence that  this  correspondence  and  conformity  be  carefully 
maintained  ;  and  they  who  assent  to  the  truth  of  this  position  will 
see  and  confess,  that  it  is  well  provided  for,  by  making  the  concur- 
rence of  the  senate  necessary,  both  to  treaties  and  to  laws. 

It  seldom  happens  in  the  negotiation  of  treaties,  of  whatever 
nature,  but  that  perfect  secrecy  and  immediate  despatch  are  some- 
times requisite.  There  are  cases  where  the  most  useful  intelli- 
gence may  be  obtained,  if  the  persons  possessing  it  can  be  reliev- 
ed from  apprehensions  of  discovery.  Those  apprehensions  will 
operate  on  those  persons,  whether  they  are  actuated  by  mercenary 
or  friendly  motives  ;  and  there  doubtless  are  many  of  both  descrip- 
tions, who  would  rely  on  the  secrecy  of  the  president,  but  who 
would  not  confide  in  that  of  the  senate,  and  still  less  in  that  of  a 
large  popular  assembly.  The  convention  have  done  well,  there- 
fore, in  so  disposing  of  the  power  of  making  treaties,  that  although 
the  president  must,  in  forming  them,  act  by  the  advice  and  consent 
39 


323  THE  FEDERALIST. 

of  the  senate,  yet  he  will  be  able  to  manage  the  business  of  intelli- 
gence in  such  a  manner  as  prudence  may  siigorest. 

They  who  have  turned  their  attention  to  the  aifairs  of  men, 
must  have  perceived  that  there  are  tides  in  them  ;  tides,  very 
irregular  in  their  duration,  strength,  and  direction,  and  seldom 
found  to  run  twice  exactly  in  the  same  manner  or  measure.  To 
discern  and  to  profit  by  tliese  tides  in  national  affairs,  is  the  busi- 
ness of  those  who  preside  over  tliem  ;  and  they  who  have  had 
much  experience  on  this  head  inform  us,  that  there  frequently  are 
occasions  when  days,  nay,  even  vvlien  hours  are  precious.  The 
loss  of  a  battle,  the  death  of  a  prince,  the  removal  of  a  minister, 
or  other  circumstances  intervening  to  change  the  present  posture 
and  aspect  of  affairs,  may  turn  the  most  favourable  tide  into  a 
course  opposite  to  our  wishes.  As  in  the  field,  so  in  the  cabinet, 
there  are  moments  to  be  seized  as  they  pass,  and  they  who  pre- 
side in  either,  should  be  left  in  capacity  to  improve  them.  So 
often  and  so  essentially  have  we  heretofore  suffered,  from  the  want 
of  secrecy  and  despatch,  that  the  constitution  would  have  been 
inexcusably  defective,  if  no  attention  had  been  paid  to  those  ob- 
jects. The  matters  which  in  negotiations  usually  require  the  most 
secrecy,  and  the  most  despatch,  are  those  preparatory  and  auxilia- 
ry measures  which  are  no  otherwise  important  in  a  national  view, 
than  as  they  tend  to  facilitate  the  attainment  of  the  main  objects. 
For  these,  the  president  will  find  no  difficulty  to  provide  ;  and 
should  any  circumstance  occur,  which  requires  the  advice  and  con- 
sent of  the  senate,  he  may  at  any  time  convene  them.  Thus  we 
see,  that  tiie  constitution  provides  that  our  negotiations  for  treaties 
shall  have  every  advantage  which  can  be  derived  from  talents,  in- 
formation, integrity,  and  dehberate  investigation,  on  the  one  hand  ; 
and  from  secrecy  and  despatch,  on  the  other. 

"But  to  this  plan,  as  to  most  others  that  have  ever  appeared,  ob- 
jections are  contrived  and  urged. 

Some  are  displeased  with  it,  not  on  account  of  any  errours  or 
defects  in  it,  but  because,  as  the  treaties,  when  made,  are  to  have 
the  force  of  laws,  they  should  bf  made  only  by  men  invested  with 
legislative  authority.  These  gentlemen  seem  not  to  consider  that 
the  judgments  of  our  courts,  and  the  commissions  constitutionally 
given  by  our  governour,  are  as  valid  and  as  binding  on  all  persons 
whom  they  concern,  as  the  laws  passed  by  our  legislature.  AH 
constitutional  acts  of  power,  whether  in  the  executive  or  in  the 
judicial  department,  have  as  much  legal  validity  and  obligation  as 
if  they  proceeded  from  the  legislature  ;  and  therefore,  whatever 
name  be  given  to  the  power  of  making  treaties,  or  however  obli- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  323 

gatory  they  may  be  when  made,  certain  it  is,  that  the  people  may, 
with  much  propriety,  commit  the  i)o\ver  to  a  distinct  body  from 
the  legislature,  the  executive,  or  the  judicial.  It  surely  does  not 
follow,  that  because  they  have  given  the  povv&lt;  r  of  making  laws  to 
the  legislature,  that  therefore  they  sliould  likewise  give  them  pow- 
er to  do  every  other  act  of  sovereignty,  by  which  the  citizens  are  to 
be  bound  and  affected. 

Others,  though  content  that  treaties  should  be  made  in  the  mode 
proposed,  are  averse  to  their  being  the  supreme  law  of  the  land. 
They  insist,  and  profess  to  believe,  that  treaties,  like  acts  of  assem- 
bly, should  be  repealable  at  pleasure.  This  idea  seems  to  be  new 
and  peculiar  to  this  country;  but  new  errours,  as  well  as  new 
truths,  often  appear.  These  gentlemen  would  do  well  to  reflect, 
that  a  treaty  is  only  another  name  for  a  bargain  ;  and  that  it  would 
be  impossible  to  find  a  nation  who  would  make  any  bargain  with 
us,  which  should  be  binding  on  them  nhsoluteli/,  but  on  us  only  so 
long  and  so  far  as  we  may  think  proper  to  be  bound  by  it.  They 
who  make  laws  may,  without  doubt,  amend  or  repeal  them  ;  and 
it  will  not  be  disputed  that  they  who  make  treatif^s,  may  alter  or 
cancel  them  :  but  still  let  us  not  forget  that  treaties  are  made  not 
by  one  only  of  the  contracting  parties,  but  by  both  ;  and  conse- 
quently, that  as  the  consent  of  both  was  essential  to  their  forma- 
tion at  first,  so  must  it  ever  afterwards  be  t(j  alter  or  cancel  them. 
Th«  proposed  constitution,  therefore,  has  not  in  the  least  extend- 
ed the  obligation  of  treaties.  They  are  just  as  binding,  and  just 
as  far  beyond  the  lawful  reach  of  legislative  acts  now,  as  they  will 
be  at  any  future  period,  or  under  any  form  of  government. 

However  useful  jealousy  may  be  in  republics,  yet  when,  like 
bile  in  the  natural,  it  abounds  too  much  in  the  body  politic,  the 
eyes  of  both  become  very  liable  to  be  deceived,  by  the  delusive  ap- 
pearances which  that  malady  casts  on  surrounding  objects.  From 
this  cause,  probably  proceed  the  fears  and  apprehensions  of  some, 
that  the  president  and  senate  may  make  treaties  without  an  equal 
eye  to  the  interests  of  all  the  states.  Others  suspect,  that  the  two 
thirds  will  oppress  the  remaining  third,  and  ask,  whether  those 
gentlemen  are  made  sufficiently  responsible  for  their  conduct ; 
■whether,  if  they  act  corruptly,  they  can  be  punished  1  and  if  they 
make  disadvantageous  treaties,  how  are  we  to  get  rid  of  those 
treaties  ? 

As  all  the  states  are  equally  represented  in  the  senate,  and  by 
men  the  most  able  and  the  most  willing  to  promote  the  interest  of 
their  constituents,  they  will  all  have  an  equal  degree  of  influence 
in  that  body,  especially  while  they  continue  to   be   careful  in  ap- 


324  THE  FEDERALIST. 

pointing  proper  persons,  and  to  insist  on  their  punctual  attend- 
ance. In  proportion  as  the  United  States  assume  a  national  form, 
and  a  national  character,  so  will  the  good  of  the  whole  be  more  and 
more  an  object  of  attention  ;  and  the  government  must  be  a  weak  one 
indeed,  if  it  should  forget,  that  the  good  of  the  whole  can  only  be 
promoted  by  advancing  the  good  of  each  of  the  parts  or  members 
^fhich  compose  the  whole.  It  will  not  be  in  the  power  of  the 
president  and  senate  to  make  any  treaties,  by  which  they,  and 
their  families  and  estates,  will  not  be  equally  bound  and  affected 
with  the  rest  of  the  community  ;  and  having  no  private  interests 
distinct  from  that  of  the  nation,  they  will  be  under  no  temptations 
to  neglect  the  latter. 

As  to  corruption,  the  case  is  not  supposable.  He  must  either 
have  been  very  unfortunate  in  his  intercourse  with  the  world,  or 
possess  a  heart  very  susceptible  of  such  impressions,  who  can 
think  it  probable,  that  the  president  and  two  thirds  of  the  senate, 
will  ever  be  capable  of  such  unworthy  conduct.  The  idea  is  too 
gross,  and  too  invidious  to  be  entertained.  But  if  such  a  case 
should  ever  happen,  the  treaty  so  obtained  from  us  would,  like 
all  other  fraudulent  contracts,  be  null  and  void  by  the  law  of  na- 
tions. 

With  respect  to  their  responsibility,  it  is  difficult  to  conceive, 
how  it  could  be  increased.  Every  consideration  that  can  influence 
the  human  mind,  such  as  honour,  oaths,  reputation,  conscience,  the 
love  of  country,  family  affections  and  attachments,  afford  security 
for  their  fidelity.  In  short,  as  the  constitution  has  taken  the  utmost 
care  that  they  shall  be  men  of  talents  and  integrity,  we  have  rea- 
son to  be  persuaded,  that  the  treaties  they  make  will  be  as  advan- 
tageous, as,  all  circumstances  considered,  could  be  made ;  and  so 
far  as  the  fear  of  punishment  and  disgrace  can  operate,  that  mo- 
tive to  good  behaviour  is  amply  afforded  by  the  article  on  the  sub- 
ject of  impeachments.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXV, 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

A  further  Vieic  of  the  Constitution  of  the  Senate,  in  relation  to  its 
Capacity  as  a  Court  for  the  Trial  of  Impeachments. 
The  remaining  powers  which  the  plan  of  the  convention  allots 
to  the  senate,  in  a  distinct  capacity,  are  comprised  in  their  partici- 
pation with  the  executive  and  in  the  appointment  to  offices,  and 
in  their  judicial  character  as  a  court  for  the  trial  of  impeachments. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  325 

As  in  the  business  of  appointments,  the  executive  will  be  the  prin- 
cipal agent,  the  provisions  relating  to  it  will  most  properly  be  dis- 
cussed in  the  examination  of  that  department.  We  will  therefore 
conclude  this  head,  with  a  view  of  the  judicial  character  of  the 
senate. 

A  well-constituted  court  for  the  trial  of  impeachments  is  an  ob- 
ject not  more  to  be  desired,  than  difficult  to  be  obtained  in  a  gov- 
ernment wholly  elective.  The  subjects  of  its  jurisdiction  are  those 
offences  which  proceed  from  the  misconduct  of  public  men,  or,  in 
other  words,  from  the  abuse  or  violation  of  some  public  trust. 
They  are  of  a  nature  which  may  with  peculiar  propriety  be  de- 
nominated POLITICAL,  as  they  relate  chiefly  to  injuries  done  imme- 
diately to  the  society  itself.  The  prosecution  of  them,  for  this 
reason,  will  seldom  fail  to  agitate  the  passions  of  the  whole  com- 
munity, and  to  divide  it  into  parties,  more  or  less  friendly,  or  in- 
imical, to  the  accused.  In  many  cases,  it  will  connect  itself  with 
the  preexisting  factions,  and  will  enlist  all  their  animosities,  par- 
tialities, influence,  and  interest  on  one  side,  or  on  the  other ;  and 
in  such  cases,  there  will  always  be  the  greatest  danger,  that  the 
decision  will  be  regulated  more  by  the  comparative  streno-th  of 
parties,  than  by  the  real  demonstrations  of  innocence  or  guilt. 

The  delicacy  and  magnitude  of  a  trust,  which  so  deeply  con- 
cerns the  political  reputation  and  existence  of  every  man  engaged 
in  the  administration  of  public  aflfairs,  speak  for  themselves.  The 
difficulty  of  placing  it  riglitly,  in  a  government  resting  entirely  on 
the  basis  of  periodical  elections,  will  as  readily  be  perceived,  when 
it  is  considered  that  the  most  conspicuous  characters  in  it  will, 
from  that  circumstance,  be  too  often  the  leaders,  or  the  tools  of 
the  most  cunning  or  the  most  numerous  faction ;  and,  on  this  ac- 
count, can  hardly  be  expected  to  possess  the  requisite  neutrality 
towards  those  whose  conduct  may  be  the  subject  of  scrutiny. 

The  convention,  it  appears,  thought  the  senate  the  most  fit  de- 
pository of  this  important  trust.  Those  who  can  best  discern  the 
intrinsic  difficulty  of  the  thing,  will  be  least  hasty  in  condemning 
that  opinion  ;  and  will  be  most  inclined  to  allow  due  weight  to  the 
arguments  which  may  be  supposed  to  have  produced  it. 

What,  it  may  be  asked,  is  the  true  spirit  of  the  institution  it- 
self? Is  it  not  designed  as  a  method  of  national  inquest  into 
the  conduct  of  public  men  1  If  this  be  the  design  of  it,  who  can 
so  properly  be  the  inquisitors  for  the  nation  as  the  representatives 
of  the  nation  themselves  1  It  is  not  disputed  that  the  power  of 
originating  the  inquiry,  or,  in  other  words,  of  preferring  the  im- 
peachment, ought  to  be  lodged  in  the  hands  of  one  branch  of  the 


326  THE  FEDERALIST. 

legislative  body  :  will  not  the  reasons  which  indicate  the  propriety 
of  this  arrangement,  strongly  plead  for  an  admission  of  the  other 
branch  of  that  body  to  a  share  of  the  inquiry  ]  The  model,  from 
which  the  idea  of  this  institution  has  been  borrowed,  pointed  out 
that  course  to  the  convention.  In  Great  Britain,  it  is  the  province 
of  the  house  of  commons  to  prefer  tlie  imp  achmeiit  ;  and  of  the 
house  of  lords  to  decide  upon  it.  Several  of  the  state  constitu- 
tions have  followed  the  example.  As  well  the  latter,  as  the  former, 
seem  to  have  regarded  the  practice  of  impeachments,  as  a  bridle 
in  the  hands  of  the  legislative  body  upon  the  executive  servants 
of  the  government.     Is  not  this  the  true  light  in  which  it  ought  to 

be  regarded  1 

Where  else,  than  in  the  senate,  could  have  been  found  a  tribunal 
sufficiently  dianified,  or  sufficiently  independent  1  What  other 
body  would  be  likely  to  feel  confidence  enovgh  in  its  own  situation, 
to  preserve  unawed  and  uninfluenced,  the  necessary  impartiality 
between  an  individual  accused,  and  the  representatives  of  the  people, 
his  accusers. 

Could  the  supreme  court  have  been  relied  upon   as   answering 
this  description  1      It  is  much  to  be  doubted,  whether  the  members 
of  that  tribunal  would,  at  all  times,  be  endowed  with  so  eminent  a 
portion  of  fortitude,  as  would  be  called  for  in   the  execution  of  so 
difficult  a  task  ;  and   it  is   still   more  to  be  doubted,  whether  they 
would  possess  a  degree   of  credit  and  authority,  which   might,  on 
certain  occasions,  be  indispensable  toward   reconciling  the  people 
to   a  decision   that   should  happen    to    clash  with   an  accusation 
brought  by  their  immediate   representatives.     A  deficiency  in  the 
first,  would  be  fatal  to  the  accused ;  in  the   last,  dangerous  to  the 
public  tranquillity.     The  hazard  in  both  these  respects  could  only 
be  avoided,  if  at  all,   by  rendering  that  tribunal  more   numerous 
than  would  consist  with  a  reasonable  attention  to  economy.     The 
necessity  of  a  numerous  court  for  the  trial  of   impeachments,  is 
equally  dictated  by  the  nature  of  the  proceeding.     This  can  never 
be  tied  down  by  such  strict  rules,  either  in  the   delineation  of  the 
offence  by  the   prosecutors,   or  in  the  construction  of   it   by  the 
judges,  as  in  common  cases  serve  to  limit  the  discretion  of  courts 
in  favour  of  personal  security.     There   will   be   no  jury  to  stand 
between  the  judges,  who  are  to  pronounce  the  sentence  of  the  law, 
and  the  party  who  is  to  receive  or  suffer  it.     The  awful  discretion 
which  a  court  of  impeachments  must  necessarily  have,  to  doom  to 
honour  or  to  infamy  the  most  confidential   and  the   most  distin- 
guished characters  of  the  community,  forbids  the  commitment  of 
the  trust  to  a  small  number  of  persons. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  3S7 

These  considerations  seem  alone   sufficient  to  authorize  a  con- 
clusion, tliat  the  supreme  court  would  have  been  an  improper  sub- 
stitute for  the   senate,   as  a  court   of   impeachments.     There   re- 
mains a  further  consideration,  which   will   not   a  little  strengthen 
this  conclusion.     It  is  this  :     The  punishment  which   may   be   the 
consequence  of  conviction  upon  impeachment,  is  not  to  terminate 
the  chastisement  of  the  offender.     After  having  been  sentenced  to 
a  perpetual  ostracism  from  the  esteem   and    confidence,  and  hon- 
ours and  emoluments  of  his  country,  he  will  still  be  liable  to  pros- 
ecution and  punislunent  in  the  ordinary  course  of  law.     Would  it 
be  proper  that  the  persons  who  had  disposed  of  his  fame,  and   his 
most  valuable  rights  as  a  citizen,  in  one   trial,  should,   in   another 
trial,  for  the  same  offence,  be  also  the  disposers  of  his  life  and  his 
fortune  ]     Would  there  not  be  the  greatest  reason   to  apprehend, 
that  errour,  in  the  first  sentence,  would  be  the  parent  of  errour  in 
the  second  sentence  1     That  the  strong  bias  of  one  decision,  would 
be  apt  to  overrule  the  influence  of  any  new  lights  which  might  be 
brought  to  vary  the  complexion  of  another  decision  ]     Those  who 
know  any  thing  of  human  nature,  will  not  hesitate  to  answer  these 
questions  in  the  affirmative  ;  and  wdl    be   at   no   loss  to  perceive, 
that  by  making  the  same  persons  judges  in  both  cases,   those   who 
might  happen  to  be  the  objects  of  prosecution   would,   in   a   great 
measure,  be  deprived  of  the  double  secuiity   intended   them   by   a 
double  trial.     The  loss  of  life  and  estate  would  often   be   virtually 
included  in  a  sentence  which,  in  its  terms,  imported  nothing  more 
than  dismission  from  a  present,  and  disqualification   for   a  future 
office.     It  may  be  said,  that  the  intervention   of   a  jury,   in   the 
second  instance,  would  obviate  the   danger.     But  juries   are   fre- 
quently influenced  by   the   opinions   of  judges.     They  are   some- 
times induced  to  find  special  verdicts,  which  refer  the   main   ques- 
tion to  the  decision  of  the  court.     Who  would  be  willing  to   stake 
his  life  and  his  estate  upon  the  verdict  of  a  jury  acting  under  the 
auspices  of  judges  who  had  predetermined  his  guilt  ? 

Would  it  have  been  an  improvement  of  the  plan,  to  have  united 
the  supreme  court  with  the  senate,  in  the  fi)rmation  of  the  court 
of  impeachments  1  This  union  would  certainly  have  been  attend- 
ed with  several  advantages  ;  but  would  they  not  have  been  over- 
balanced by  the  signal  disadvantage  afready  stated,  arising  from 
the  agency  of  the  same  judges  in  the  double  prosecution  to  which 
the  oftender  would  be  liable  1  To  a  certain  extent,  the  benefits  of 
that  union  will  be  obtained  from  making  the  chief  justice  of  the 
supreme  court  the  president  of  the  court  of  impeachments,  as  is 
proposed  to  be  done  in  the  plan  of  the  convention  ;  while  the  in- 


328  THE  FEDERALIST. 

conveniences  of  an  entire  incorporation  of  the  former  into  the 
latter,  will  be  substantially  avoided.  This  was  perhaps  the  pru- 
dent mean.  I  forbear  to  remark  upon  the  additional  pretext  for 
clamour  against  the  judiciary,  which  so  considerable  an  augment- 
ation of  its  authority  would  have  afforded. 

Would  it  have  been  desirable  to  have  composed  the  court  for 
the  trial  of  impeachments,  of  persons  wholly  distinct  from  the 
other  departments  of  the  government  1  There  are  weighty  argu- 
ments, as  well  against,  as  in  favour  of  such  a  plan.  To  some 
minds,  it  will  not  appear  a  trivial  objection,  that  it  would  tend  to 
increase  the  complexity  of  the  political  machine,  and  to  add  a 
new  spring  to  the  government,  the  utility  of  which  would  at  best 
be  questionable.  But  an  objection  which  will  not  be  thought  by 
any  unworthy  of  attention,  is  this  :  a  court  formed  upon  such  a 
plan,  would  either  be  attended  with  heavy  expense,  or  might  in 
practice  be  subject  to  a  variety  of  casualties  and  inconveniences. 
It  must  either  consist  of  permanent  officers,  stationary  at  the  seat 
of  government,  and  of  course  entitled  to  fixed  and  regular  sti- 
pends, or  of  certain  officers  of  the  state  governments,  to  be  called 
upon  whenever  an  impeachment  was  actually  depending.  It  will 
not  be  easy  to  imagine  any  third  mode  materially  diff"erent,  which 
could  rationally  be  proposed.  As  the  court,  for  reasons  already 
given,  ought  to  be  numerous ;  the  first  scheme  will  be  reprobated 
by  every  man,  who  can  compare  the  extent  of  the  public  wants 
with  the  means  of  supplying  them  ;  the  second  will  be  espoused 
with  caution  by  those  who  will  seriously  consider  the  difficulty  of 
collecting  men  dispersed  over  the  whole  union  ;  the  injury  to  the 
innocent,  from  the  procrastinated  determination  of  the  charges 
which  might  be  brought  against  them  ;  the  advantage  to  the  guilty, 
from  the  opportunities  which  delay  would  afford  for  intrigue  and 
corruption  ;  and  in  some  cases  the  detriment  to  the  state,  from  the 
prolonged  inaction  of  men  whose  firm  and  faithful  execution  of 
their  duty  might  have  exposed  them  to  the  persecution  of  an  in- 
temperate or  designing  majority  in  the  house  of  representatives. 
Though  this  latter  supposition  may  seem  harsh,  and  might  not  be 
likely  often  to  be  verified  ;  yet  it  ought  not  to  be  forgotten  that 
the  demon  of  faction  will,  at  certain  seasons,  extend  his  sceptre 
over  all  numerous  bodies  of  men. 

But  though  one  or  the  other  of  the  substitutes  which  have  been 
examined,  or  some  other  that  might  be  devised,  should  in  this  re- 
sp  ct,  be  thought  preferable  to  the  plan  reported  by  the  convention, 
it  '^ill  not  follow  that  the  constitution  ought  for  this  reason  to  be 
re^  cted.     If  mankind  were  to  resolve  to  agree  in  no  instituti      of 


THE  FEDERALIST.  329 

government,  until  every  part  of  it  had  been  adjusted  to  the  most 
exact  standard  of  perfection,  society  would  soon  become  a  general 
scene  of  anarcliy,  and  the  world  a  desert.  Where  is  the  standard 
of  perfection  to  be  found  1  Who  will  undertake  to  unite  tlie  dis- 
cordant opinions  of  a  whole  community,  in  the  same  judsfment  of 
it ;  and  to  prevail  upon  one  conceited  projector  to  renounce  his 
infallible  criterion,  for  the  fallible  criterion  of  his  more  conceited 
neighbour  ?  To  answer  the  purpose  of  the  adversaries  of  the  con- 
stitution, they  ought  to  prove,  not  merely  that  particular  pro- 
visions in  it  are  not  the  best  which  might  have  been  imagined,  but 
that  the  plau  upon  the  whole  is  bad  and  pernicious. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXVI. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  same  Subject  Continued. 

A  REVIEW  of  the  principal  objections  that  have  appeared  against 
the  proposed  court  for  the  trial  of  impeachments,  will  not  improb- 
ably eradicate  the  remains  of  any  favourable  impressions  which 
may  still  exist  in  regard  to  this  matter. 

The  frst  of  these  objections  is,  that  the  provision  in  question 
confounds  legislative  and  judiciary  authorities  in  the  same  body, 
in  violation  of  that  important  and  well-established  maxim,  which 
requires  a  separation  between  the  different  departments  of  power. 
The  true  meaning  of  this  maxim  has  been  discussed  and  ascertain- 
ed in  another  place,  and  has  been  shown  to  be  entirely  compatible 
with  a  partial  intermixture  of  those  departments  for  special  pur- 
poses, preserving  them,  in  the  main,  distinct  and  unconnected. 
This  partial  intermixture  is  even,  in  some  cases,  not  only  proper, 
but  necessary  to  the  mutual  defence  of  the  several  members  of  the 
government,  against  each  other.  An  absolute  or  qualified  nega- 
tive in  the  executive  upon  the  acts  of  the  legislative  body,  is  ad- 
mitted by  the  ablest  adepts  in  political  science,  to  be  an  indispensa- 
ble barrier  against  the  encroachments  of  the  latter  upon  the  for- 
mer. And  it  may,  perhaps,  with  no  less  reason,  be  contended, 
that  the  powers  relating  to  impeachments  are,  as  before  intimated, 
an  essential  check  in  the  hands  of  that  body,  upon  the  encroach- 
ments of  the  executive.  The  division  of  them  between  the  two 
branches  of  the  legislature,  assigning  to  one  the  right  of  ace  &gt;ing, 
to  the  other  the  right  of  judging,  avoids  the  inconvenience  of  nak- 
i  ^  the  same  persons  both  accusers  and  judges  ;  and  guards  a  xinst 
40 


330  THE  FEDERALIST. 

the  danger  of  persecution,  from  the  prevalency  of  a  factious  spirit 
in  either  of  those  branches.  As  the  concurrence  of  two  thirds  of 
the  senate  will  be  requisite  to  a  condemnation,  the  security  to  in- 
nocence, from  this  additional  circumstance,  will  be  as  complete  as 
itself  can  desire. 

It  is  curious  to  observe,  with  what  vehemence  this  part  of  the 
plan  is  assailed,  on  the  principle  here  taken  notice  of,  by  men 
who  profess  to  admire,  without  exception,  the  constitution  of  this 
state  ;  while  that  very  constitution  makes  the  senate,  together  with 
the  chancellor  and  judges  of  the  supreme  court,  not  only  a  court 
of  impeachments,  but  the  highest  judicatory  in  the  state  in  all 
causes  civil  and  criminal.  The  proportion,  in  point  of  numbers, 
of  the  chancellor  and  judges  to  the  senators,  is  so  inconsiderable, 
that  the  judiciary  authority  of  New  York,  in  the  last  resort,  may, 
with  truth,  be  said  to  reside  in  its  senate.  If  the  plan  of  the  con- 
vention be,  in  this  respect,  chargeable  with  a  departure  from  the 
celebrated  maxim  which  lias  been  so  often  mentioned,  and  seems 
to  be  so  little  understood,  how  much  more  culpable  must  be  the 
constitution  of  New  York  !* 

A  second  objection  to  the  senate,  as  a  court  of  impeachments, 
is,  that  it  contributes  to  an  undue  accimiulation  of  power  in  that 
body,  tending  to  give  to  the  government  a  countenance  too  aris- 
tocratic. The  senate,  it  is  observed,  is  to  have  concurrent  au- 
thority with  the  executive  in  the  formation  of  treaties,  and  in  the 
appointment  to  offices  :  if,  say  the  objectors,  to  these  prerogatives, 
is  added  that  of  determining  in  all  cases  of  in)peachment,  it  will 
give  a  decided  predominancy  to  senatorial  influence.  To  an  ob- 
jection so  little  precise  in  itself,  it  is  not  easy  to  find  a  very  pre- 
cise answer.  Where  is  the  measure  or  criterion  to  which  we  can 
appeal,  for  estimating  what  will  give  the  senate  too  much,  too  lit- 
tle, or  barely  the  proper  degree  of  influence  1  Will  it  not  be  more 
safe,  as  well  as  more  simple,  to  dismiss  such  vague  and  uncertain 
calculations,  to  examine  each  power  by  itself,  and  to  decide  on 
general  principles,  where  it  may  be  deposited  with  most  advan- 
tage, and  least  inconvenience  ? 

If  we  take  this  course,  it  will  lead  to  a  more  intelligible,  if  not 
a  more  certain  result.  The  disposition  of  the  power  of  making 
treaties,  which  has  obtained  in  the  plan  of  the  convention,  will 
then,  if  I  mistake  not,  appear  to  be  fully  justified  by  the  consider- 
ations stated  in  a  former  number,  and  by  others  which  will  occur 

^  In  thnt  of  Now  Jersey,  also,  the  final  juflioiary  anlliorily  is  iti  a  branch  of  the  legisla- 
ture. In  New  Hampshire,  Massachusetts,  Pennsylvania,  and  South  Carolina,  one  branch 
of  the  legislature  is  the  court  for  the  trial  of  impeachments. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  9$L 

under  the  next  head  of  our  inquiries.  The  expediency  of  the  junc- 
tion of  the  senate  with  the  executive,  in  the  power  of  appointing 
to  offices,  will,  I  trust,  be  placed  in  a  light  not  less  satisfactory,  in 
the  disquisitions  under  the  same  head.  And  I  flatter  myself  the 
observations  in  my  last  paper  must  have  gone  no  inconsiderable 
■way  towards  proving,  that  it  was  not  easy,  if  practicable,  to  find 
a  more  fit  receptacle,  for  the  power  of  determining  impeachments, 
than  that  which  has  been  chosen.  If  this  be  truly  the  case,  the 
hypothetical  danger  of  the  too  great  weight  of  the  senate,  ought 
to  be  discarded  from  our  reasonings. 

But  this  hypothesis,  such  as  it  is,  has  already  been  refuted  in 
the  remarks  applied  to  the  duration  of  office  prescribed  for  the 
senators.  It  was  by  them  shown,  as  well  on  the  credit  of  histori- 
cal examples,  as  from  the  reason  of  the  thing,  that  the  most  popu- 
lar branch  of  every  government,  partaking  of  the  republican 
genius,  by  being  generally  the  favourite  of  the  people,  will  be  as 
generally  a  full  match,  if  not  an  overmatch,  for  every  other  mem- 
ber of  the  government. 

But  independent  of  this  most  active  and  operative  principle  ; 
to  secure  the  equilibrium  of  the  national  house  of  representatives, 
the  plan  of  the  convention  has  provided  in  its  favour  several  im- 
portant counterpoises  to  the  additional  authorities  to  be  conferred 
upon  the  senate.  The  exclusive  privilege  of  originating  money 
bills  will  belong  to  the  house  of  representatives.  The  same  house 
•will  possess  the  sole  right  of  instituting  impeachments  :  is  not  this 
a  complete  counterbalance  to  that  of  determining  them  1  The  same 
house  will  be  the  umpire  in  all  elections  of  the  president,  which 
do  not  unite  the  suffrages  of  a  majority  of  the  whole  number  cT 
electors;  a  case  which  it  cannot  be  doubted  will  sometimes,  if  not 
frequently,  happen.  The  constant  possibility  of  the  thing  must 
be  a  fruitful  source  of  influence  to  that  body.  The  more  it  is  con- 
templated, the  more  important  will  appear  this  ultimate,  though 
contingent  power,  of  deciding  the  competitions  of  the  most  illus- 
trious citizens  of  the  union,  for  the  first  office  in  it.  It  would  not 
perhaps  be  rash  to  predict,  that  as  a  mean  of  influence,  it  will  be 
found  to  outweigh  all  the  peculiar  attributes  of  the  senate. 

A  third  objection  to  the  senate  as  a  court  of  impeachments,  is 
drawn  from  the  agency  they  are  to  have  in  the  appointments  to 
office.  It  is  imagined  that  they  would  be  too  indulgent  judges  of 
the  conduct  of  men,  in  whose  official  creation  they  had  partici- 
pated. The  principle  of  this  objection  would  condemn  a  practice, 
which  is  to  be  seen  in  all  the  state  governments,  if  not  in  all  the 
governments  with  which  we  are  acquainted  :    I  mean  that  of  ren- 


i 


332  THE  FEDERALIST. 

dering  those,  who  hold  offices  (^^iiring  pleasure,  dependent  on  the 
pleasure  of  those  who  appoint  thein.  With  equal  plausibility 
might  it  be  alleged  in  this  case,  that  the  favouritism  of  the  latter 
would  always  be  an  asjluin  for  the  misbehaviour  of  the  former. 
But  that  practice,  in  contradiction  to  this  principle,  proceeds  upon 
the  presumption,  that  the  responsibility  of  those  who  appoint,  for 
the  fitness  and  competency  of  the  persons  on  whom  they  bestow 
their  choice,  and  the  interest  they  have  in  the  respectable  and  pros- 
perous administration  of  aftairs,  will  inspire  a  sufficient  disposi- 
tion, to  dismiss  from  a  share  in  it  all  such  who  by  their  conduct 
may  have  proved  themselves  unworthy  of  the  confidence  reposed  in 
them.  Though  facts  may  not  always  correspond  with  this  pre- 
sumption, yet  if  it  be  in  the  main  just,  it  must  destroy  the  su[)po- 
sition,  that  the  senate,  who  will  merely  sanction  the  choice  of  the 
executive,  should  feel  a  bias,  towards  the  objects  of  that  choice 
strong  enough  to  blind  them  to  the  evidences  of  guilt  so  extraor- 
dinary, as  to  have  induced  the  representatives  of  the  nation  to  be- 
come its  accusers. 

If  any  further  argument  were  necessary  to  evince  the  improba- 
bility of  such  a  bias,  it  might  be  found  in  the  nature  of  the  agency 
of  the  senate,  in  the  business  of  appointments. 

It  will  be  the  office  of  the  president  to  nominate,  and  with  the 
advice  and  consent  of  the  senate  to  appoint.  There  will  of  course 
be  no  exertion  of  choice.,  on  the  part  of  the  senate.  They  may 
defeat  one  choice  of  the  executive,  and  oblige  him  to  make 
another;  but  they  cannot  themselves  cAoose.... they  can  only  ratify 
or  reject  the  choice  he  may  have  made.  They  might  even  enter- 
tain a  preference  to  some  other  person,  at  the  very  moment  they 
were  assenting  to  the  one  proposed  ;  because  there  might  be  no 
positive  ground  of  opposition  to  him  ;  and  they  could  not  be  sure, 
if  they  withheld  their  assent,  that  the  subsequent  nomination  would 
fall  upon  their  own  favourite,  or  u]ion  any  other  person  in  their 
estimation  more  meritorious  than  the  one  rejected.  Thus  it  could 
hardly  happen,  that  the  majority  of  the  senate  would  feel  any  other 
complacency  towards  the  object  of  an  appointment,  than  such  as 
the  appearances  of  merit  might  intpire,  and  proofs  of  the  want  of 
it  destroy. 

A  fourth  objection  to  the  senate,  in  the  capacity  of  a  court  of 
impeachments,  is  derived  from  their  union  with  the  executive  in  the 
power  of  making  treaties.  This,  it  has  been  said,  would  consti- 
tute the  senators  their  own  judges,  in  every  case  of  a  corrupt  or 
perfidious  execution  of  that  trust.  After  having  combined  with 
the  executire  in  betraying  the  interests  of  the  nation  in  a  ruinous 


THE  FEDERALIST.  333 

treaty,  wliat  prospect,  it  is  asked,  would  there  be  of  their  being 
made  to  sufter  the  pmiirthnient  thev  would  deserve,  when  they  were 
themselves  to  decide  upon  the  accusation  brouglit  against  them  for 
the  treachery  of  vvhicli  they  had  been  guilty  ] 

Tills  objection  lias  been  circulated  with  more  earnestness,  and 
with  a  greater  show  of  reason,  than  any  other  which  has  appear- 
ed against  this  part  of  the  plan  ;  and  yet  I  am  deceived,  if  it  does 
not  rest  upon  an  erroneous  foundation. 

The  security  essentially  intended  by  the  constitution  against 
corruption  and  treachery  in  the  formation  of  treaties,  is  to  be 
soujrht  for  in  the  numbers  and  cliaracters  of  those  who  are  to 
make  them.  The  joint  agency  of  the  chief  magistrate  of  the 
union,  and  of  two  thirds  of  the  members  of  a  body  selected  by 
the  collective  wisdom  of  the  legislatures  of  the  several  states,  is 
designed  to  be  the  j^ledge  for  the  hdclity  of  the  national  councils 
in  this  particular.  The  convention  might  with  propriety  have 
meditated  the  punishment  of  the  executive,  for  a  deviation  from 
the  instructions  of  the  senate,  or  a  want  of  integrity  in  the  con- 
duct of  the  negotiations  committed  to  him  :  they  might  also  have 
had  in  view  the  punishment  of  a  few  leading  individuals  in  the 
senate,  who  should  have  prostituted  their  influence  in  that  body, 
as  the  mercenary  instruments  of  foreign  corruption :  but  they 
could  not,  with  more  or  with  equal  propriety,  have  contemi)lated 
the  impeachment  and  punishment  of  two  thirds  of  the  senate,  con- 
senting to  an  improper  treaty,  than  of  a  majority  of  that  or  of  the 
other  branch  of  the  national  legislature,  consenting  to  a  pernicious 
or  unconstitutional  law  :  a  principle  which  I  believe  has  never 
been  admitted  into  any  government.  How,  in  fact,  could  a  ma- 
jority of  the  house  of  representatives  impeach  themselves?  Not 
better,  it  is  evident,  than  two  thirds  of  the  senate  might  try  them- 
selves. And  yet  what  reason  is  there,  that  a  majority  of  the  house 
of  representatives,  sacrificing  the  interests  of  the  society  by  an 
unjust  and  tyrannical  act  of  legislation,  should  escape  with  impu- 
nity, more  than  two  thirds  of  the  senate  sacrificing  the  same  in- 
terests in  an  injurious  treaty  with  a  foreign  power  1  The  truth  is, 
that  in  all  such  cases,  it  is  essential  to  the  freedom,  and  to  the 
necessary  independence  of  the  deliberations  of  the  body,  that  the 
members  of  it  should  be  exempt  from  punishment  for  acts  done  in 
a  collective  capacity  ;  and  the  security  to  the  society  must  depend 
on  the  care  which  is  taken  to  confide  the  trust  to  proper  hands,  to 
make  it  their  interest  to  execute  it  with  fidelity,  and  to  make  it  as 
difficult  as  possible  for  them  to  combine  in  any  interest  opposite  to 
that  of  the  public  good. 


3S4  THE  FEDERALIST. 

So  far  as  might  concern  the  misbehaviour  of  the  executive  in 
perverting  the  instructions,  or  contravening  the  views  of  the  sen- 
ate, we  need  not  be  apprehensive  of  the  want  of  a  disposition  in 
that  body  to  punish  the  abuse  of  their  confidence,  or  to  vindicate 
iheir  own  authority.  We  may  thus  far  count  upon  their  pride,  if 
not  upon  tlieir  virtue:  And  so  far  even  as  might  concern  the  cor- 
ruption of  leading  members,  by  whose  arts  and  influence  the  ma- 
jority may  have  been  inveigled  into  measures  odious  to  the  com- 
munity ;  if  the  proofs  of  that  corruption  should  be  satisfactory, 
the  usual  propensity  of  human  nature  will  warrant  us  in  conclud- 
ing that  there  would  be  commonly  no  defect  of  inclination  in  the 
body,  to  divert  the  public  resentment  from  themselves,  by  a  ready 
sacrifice  of  the  authors  of  their  mismanagement  and  disgrace. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXVII. 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

Concerning  the   Constitution  of  the  President :  a  gross   attempt  to 
misrepresent  this  part  of  the  plan  detected. 

The  constitution  of  the  executive  department  of  the  proposed 
government,  next  claims  our  attention. 

There  is  hardly  any  part  of  the  system,  the  arrangement  of 
■which  could  have  been  attended  with  greater  difficulty,  and  there 
is  perhaps  none  which  has  been  inveighed  against  with  less  can- 
dour, or  criticised  with  less  judgment. 

Here  the  writers  against  the  constitution  seem  to  have  taken 
pains  to  signalize  their  talent  of  misrepresentation.  Calculating 
upon  the  aversion  of  the  people  to  monarchy,  they  have  endeav- 
oured to  enlist  all  their  jealousies  and  apprehensions  in  opposition 
to  the  intended  president  of  the  United  Slates  ;  not  merely  as  the 
embryo,  but  as  the  full-grown  progeny  of  that  detested  parent. 
To  establish  the  pretended  affinity,  they  have  not  scrupled  to  draw 
resources  even  from  the  regions  of  fiction.  The  authorities  of  a 
magistrate,  in  few  instances  greater,  in  some  instances  less,  than 
those  of  a  governour  of  New  York,  have  been  magnified  into 
more  than  royal  prerogatives.  He  has  been  decorated  with  attri- 
butes, superiour  in  dignity  and  splendour  to  those  of  a  king  of 
Great  Britain.  He  has  been  shown  to  us  with  the  diadem  spark- 
ling on  his  brow,  and  the  imperial  })urple  flowing  in  his  train.  He 
has  been  seated  on  a  throne  surrounded  with  minions  and  mis- 
tresses ;  giving  audience  to  the  envoys  of  foreign  potentates,  in 


THE  FEDERALIST.  3S5 

all  the  supercilious  pomp  of  majesty.  The  images  of  Asiatic  des- 
potism and  voluptuousness,  have  not  been  wanting  to  crown  the 
exaggerated  scene.  We  have  been  taught  to  tremble  at  the  ter- 
rific visages  of  murderitig  janizaries  ;  and  to  blush  at  the  unveiled 
mysteries  of  a  future  seraglio. 

Attempts  extravagant  as  these  to  disfigure,  or  rather  to  meta- 
morphose the  object,  render  it  nece.ssary  to  take  an  accurate  view 
of  its  real  nature  and  form  ;  in  order  to  ascertain  its  true  aspect 
and  genuine  appearance,  to  unmask  the  disingenuity,  and  to  ex- 
pose the  fallacy  of  the  counterfeit  resemblances  which  have  been 
so  insidiously,  as  well  as  industriously,  propagated. 

In  the  execution  of  this  task,  there  is  no  man  who  would  not 
find  it  an  arduous  effort  either  to  behold  with  moderation,  or  to 
treat  with  seriousness,  the  devices,  not  less  weak  tlian  wicked, 
which  have  been  contrived  to  pervert  the  public  opinion  in  relation 
to  the  subject.  They  so  far  exceed  the  usual,  though  unjustifiable 
licenses  of  party-artifice,  that  even  in  a  disposition  the  most  can- 
did and  tolerant,  they  must  force  tlie  sentiments  which  favour  an 
indulgent  construction  of  the  conduct  of  political  adversaries,  to 
give  place  to  a  voluntary  and  unreserved  indignation.  It  is  im- 
possible not  to  bestow  the  imputation  of  deliberate  imposture  and 
deception  upon  the  gross  pretence  of  a  siraiHtude  between  a  king 
of  Great  Britain,  and  a  magistrate  of  the  character  marked  out 
for  that  of  tiie  president  of  the  United  States.  It  is  still  more 
impossible  to  withhold  that  imputation,  from  the  rash  and  bare- 
faced expedients  which  have  been  employed  to  give  success  to  the 
attempted  imposition. 

In  one  instance,  which  I  cite  as  a  sample  of  the  general  spirit, 
the  temerity  has  proceeded  so  far  as  to  ascribe  to  the  president  of 
the  United  States  a  power  which,  by  the  instrument  reported,  is 
cxpressli/  allotted  to  the  executives  of  the  individual  states.  I  tneaa 
the  power  of  filhng  casual  vacancies  in  the  senate. 

This  bold  experiment  upon  the  discernment  of  his  countrymen, 
has  been  hazarded  by  the  writer  who  (whatever  may  be  his  real 
merit)  has  had  no  inconsiderable  share  in  the  applauses  of  his 
party  ;*  and  who,  upon  this  false  and  unfounded  suggestion,  has 
built  a  series  of  observations  equally  false  and  unfounded.  Let 
him  now  be  confronted  with  the  evidence  of  the  fact ;  and  let  him, 
if  he  be  able,  justify  or  extenuate  the  shameful  outrage  he  has  offer- 
ed to  the  dictates  of  truth,  and  to  the  rules  of  ^air  dealing. 

The  second  clause  of  the  second  section  of  the  second  article, 
empowers  the  president  of  the  United  States  "  to  nominate,  and 

"  Sec  Caio  No.  5. 


336  THE  FlSBERALIST. 

"  by  and  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  senate,  to  appoint 
"  ambassadors,  other  public  ministers  and  consuls,  judges  of  the 
"  supreme  court,  and  all  other  ojjifc.rs  of  the  United  States,  whose 
"appointments  are  not  in  the  cf)nstitution  otherwise  provided  for, 
"  and  which  shall  be  established  by  law."  Immediately  after  this 
clause  follows  another  in  these  words:  "  The  president  shall  have 
"power  to  fill  up  all  vacancies  that  may  happen  during  the  recess 
"  of  the  senate,  by  granting  commissions  which  shall  erpire  at  the 
"  end  of  their  next  session."  It  is  from  this  last  provision,  that  the 
pretended  power  of  the  president  to  fill  vacancies  in  the  senate  has 
been  deduced.  A  sligl)t  attention  to  the  connexion  of  the  clauses, 
and  the  obvious  meaning  of  the  terms,  will  satisfy  us,  that  the  de- 
duction is  not  even  colourable. 

The  first  of  these  two  clauses,  it  is  clear,  only  provides  a  mode 
for  appointing  such  officers,  "  whose  appointments  are  not  other- 
"  wise  provided  for  in  the  constitution,  and  which  shall  be  establish- 
"  ed  by  law  ;"  of  course  it  cannot  extend  to  the  appointment  of  sen- 
ators :  whose  appointments  ate  otherrvise  provided  for  in  the  con- 
stitution,* and  who  are  established  by  the  constitution,  and  will  not 
require  a  future  establishment  by  law.  This  position  will  hardly 
be  contested. 

The  last  of  these  two  clauses,  it  is  equally  clear,  cannot  be  un- 
derstood to  comprehend  the  power  of  filling  vacancies  in  the  sen- 
ate, fi&gt;r  the  following  reasons  :  First.  The  relation  in  which  that 
clause  stands  to  the  other,  which  declares  the  general  mode  of  ap- 
pointing officers  of  the  United  States,  denotes  it  to  be  nothing 
more  than  a  supplement  to  the  otlier  ;  for  the  purpose  of  estab- 
lishing an  auxiliary  method  of  appointment,  in  cases  to  which  the 
general  method  was  inadequate.  The  ordinary  power  of  ap- 
pointment is  confided  to  the  president  and  senate  jointly,  and  can 
therefore  only  be  exercised  during  the  session  of  the  senate  ;  but 
as  it  would  have  been  improper  to  oblige  this  body  to  be  continu- 
ally in  session  for  the  appointment  of  officers  ;  and  as  vacancies 
miglit  happen  in  their  recess,  which  it  might  be  necessary  for  the 
public  service  to  fill  without  delay,  the  succeeding  clause  is  evi- 
dently intended  to  authorize  the  president,  singly,  to  make  tempo- 
rary appointments  •'  during  the  recess  of  the  senate,  by  granting 
"  commissions  which  should  expire  at  the  end  of  their  next  ses- 
"  sion."  Second.  If  this  clause  is  to  be  considered  as  supplemen- 
tary to  the  one  which  precedes,  the  vacancies  of  which  it  speaks 
must  be  construed  to  relate  to  the  "officers"  described  in  the  pre- 
ceding one  ;  and  this,  we  have  seen,  excludes  from  its  description 

•Article  1,  Sec.  3,  Clause  1, 


THE  FEDERALIST.  337 

the  members  of  the  senate.  Third.  The  time  within  which  the 
power  is  to  operate,  "  during  the  recess  of  the  senate,"  and  the 
duration  of  the  appointments,  "  to  the  end  of  tlie  next  session" 
of  that  body,  conspire  to  elucidate  tiie  sense  of  tlie  provision, 
whicl),  if  it  had  been  intended  to  comprehend  senators,  would  nat- 
urally have  referred  the  temporary  power  of  filliiiij  vacancies  to 
tlie  recess  of  the  state  legislatures,  who  are  to  make  the  perma- 
nent appointments,  and  not  to  the  recess  of  the  national  senate, 
who  are  to  have  no  concern  in  those  appointments  ;  and  would 
have  extended  the  duration  in  office  of  the  temporary  senators  to 
the  next  session  of  the  legislature  of  the  state,  in  whose  represent- 
ation the  vacancies  had  happened,  instead  of  making  it  to  expire  at 
the  end  of  the  ensuing  session  of  the  national  senate.  The  cir- 
cumstances of  the  body  authorized  to  make  the  permanent  ap- 
pointments, would,  of  course,  have  governed  the  modification  of 
a  power  which  related  to  the  temporary  appointments  ;  and  as 
the  national  senate  is  the  body,  whose  situation  is  alone  contem- 
plated in  the  clause  upon  which  the  su2'gestion  under  examination 
has  been  founded,  the  vacancies  to  which  it  alludes  can  only  be 
deemed  to  respect  those  officers  in  whf)se  appointment  that  b&lt;»dy 
has  a  concurrent  agency  with  the  president.  But  lastly,  the  first 
and  secoiid  clauses  of  the  third  section  of  the  first  article,  obviate 
all  possibility  of  doubt.  The  former  provides,  that  "  the  senate 
*'  of  the  United  States  shall  be  composed  of  two  senators  from 
*'  each  state,  chosen  by  the  legislature  thereof  for  six  years  ;"  and 
the  latter  directs,  that  "  if  vacancies  in  that  body  should  happen 
"by  resignation  or  other\^ise,  during  the  recess  of  the  legislature  of 
*'  ANY  STATE,  the  exccutivc  THEREOF  may  make  temporary  ap- 
"pointments  until  the  wez&lt;  n/eef/wo- o/"  the  legislature,  which  shall 
"  then  fill  such  vacancies."  Here  is  an  express  power  given,  in 
clear  and  unambiguous  terms,  to  the  state  executives,  to  fill  the 
casual  vacancies  in  the  senate,  by  temporary  appointments;  which 
not  only  invalidates  the  supposition,  that  the  clause  before  consid- 
ered could  have  been  intended  to  confer  that  power  upon  the  pres- 
ident of  the  United  States ;  but  proves  that  this  supposition,  desti- 
tute as  it  is  even  of  the  merit  of  plausibility,  must  have  originated 
in  an  intention  to  deceive  the  people,  too  palpable  to  be  obscured 
by  sophistry,  too  atrocious  to  be  palliated  by  hypocrisy. 

I  liave  taken  the  pains  to  select  this  instance  of  misrepresenta- 
tion, and  to  place  it  in  a  clear  and  strong  light,  as  an  unequivocal 
proof  of  the  unwarrantable  arts  which  are  practised,  to  prevent  a 
fair  and  impartial  judgment  of  the  real  merits  of  the  plan  submit- 
ted to  the  consideration  of  the  people.  Nor  have  I  scrupled,  in 
41 


338  THE  FEDERALIST. 

so  flagrant  a  case,  to  indulge  a  severity  of  animadversion,  little 
congenial  with  the  general  spirit  of  these  papers.  I  hesitate  not 
to  submit  it  to  the  decision  of  any  candid  and  honest  adversary  of 
the  proposed  government,  whether  language  can  furnish  epithets 
of  two  much  asperity,  for  so  shameless  and  so  prostitute  an  at- 
tempt to  impose  on  the  citizens  of  America. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXVIIL 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

2Tie  View  of  the  Constitution  of  tJie  President  continued,  in  relation 
to  the  mode  of  Appointment. 

The  mode  of  appointment  of  the  chief  magistrate  of  the  Unit- 
ed States,  is  almost  the  only  part  of  tlie  system  of  anj'  conse- 
quence, which  has  escaped  without  severe  censure,  or  which  has 
received  the  slightest  mark  of  approbation  from  its  apponents. 
The  most  plausible  of  these,  who  has  appeared  in  print,  has  even 
deigned  to  admit,  that  the  election  of  the  president  is  pretty  well 
gjiarded.*  I  venture  somewhat  further,  and  hesitate  not  to  affirm, 
that  if  the  manner  of  it  be  not  perfect,  it  is  at  least  excellent.  It 
unites  in  an  eminent  degree  all  the  advantages,  the  union  of  which 
was  to  be  wished  for. 

It  was  desirable,  that  the  sense  of  the  people  should  operate  in 
the  choice  of  the  person  to  whom  so  important  a  trust  was  to  be 
confided.  This  end  will  be  answered  by  committing  the  right  of 
making  it,  not  to  any  preestablished  body,  but  to  men  chosen  by 
the  people  for  the  special  purpose,  and  at  the  particular  conjunc- 
ture. 

It  was  equally  desirable,  that  the  immediate  election  should  be 
made  by  men  most  capable  of  analyzing  the  qualities  adapted  to  the 
station,  and  acting  under  circumstances  favourable  to  deliberation, 
and  to  a  judicious  combination  of  all  the  reasons  and  inducements 
that  were  proper  to  govern  their  choice.  A  small  number  of  per- 
sons, selected  by  their  fellow-citizens  from  the  general  mass,  will 
be  most  likely  to  possess  the  information  and  discernment  requi- 
site to  so  complicated  an  investigation. 

It  was  also  peculiarly  desirable  to  afford  as  little  opportunity  as 
possible  to  tumult  and  disorder.  This  evil  was  not  least  to  be 
dreaded  in  the  election  of  a  magistrate,  who  was  to  have  so  im- 
portant an  agency  in  the  administration  of  the  government.     But 

*  Vide  Federal  Farmer. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  339 

the  precautions  which  have  been  so  happily  concerted  in  the 
system  under  consideration,  promise  an  effectual  security  against 
this  mischief.  The  choice  of  several,  to  form  an  intermediate 
body  of  electors,  will  be  much  less  apt  to  convulse  the  community, 
with  any  extraordinary  or  violent  movements,  than  the  choice  of 
one,  who  was  himself  to  be  the  final  object  of  the  public  wishes. 
And  as  the  electors,  chosen  in  each  state,  are  to  assemble  and  vote 
in  the  state  in  which  they  are  chosen,  this  detached  and  divided 
situation  will  expose  them  much  less  to  heats  and  ferments,  that 
might  be  comnmnicated  from  them  to  the  people,  than  if  they 
were  all  to  be  convened  at  one  time,  in  one  place. 

Nothing  was  more  to  be  desired,  than  that  every  practicable 
obstacle  should  be  opposed  to  cabal,  intrigue,  and  corruption. 
These  most  deadly  adversaries  of  republican  government,  might 
naturally  have  been  expected  to  make  their  approaches  from  more 
than  one  quarter,  but  chiefly  from  the  desire  in  foreign  powers  to 
gain  an  improper  ascendant  in  our  councils.  How  could  they  bet- 
ter gratify  this  than  by  raising  a  creature  of  their  own  to  the  chief 
magistracy  of  the  union  ?  But  the  convention  have  guarded 
against  all  danger  of  this  sort,  with  the  most  provident  and  judi- 
cious attention.  They  have  not  made  the  appointment  of  the 
president  to  depend  on  preexisting  bodies  of  men,  who  might  be 
tampered  with  beforehand  to  prostitute  their  votes;  but  they  have 
referred  it  in  the  first  instance  to  an  immediate  act  of  the  people 
of  America,  to  be  exerted  in  the  choice  of  persons  for  the  tempo- 
rary and  sole  purpose  of  making  the  appointment.  And  they 
have  excluded  from  eligibility  to  this  trust,  all  those  who  from  sit- 
uation might  be  suspected  of  too  great  devotion  to  the  president 
in  office.  No  senator,  representative,  or  other  person  holding  a 
place  of  trust  or  profit  under  the  United  States,  can  be  of  the  num- 
ber of  the  electors.  Thus,  without  corrupting  the  body  of  the  peo- 
ple, the  immediate  agents  in  the  election  will  at  least  enter  upon 
the  task,  free  from  any  sinister  bias.  Their  transient  existence, 
and  their  detached  situation,  already  noticed,  afford  a  satisfactory 
prospect  of  their  continuing  so,  to  the  conclusion  of  it.  The  busi- 
ness of  corruption,  when  it  is  to  embrace  so  considerable  a  num- 
ber of  men,  requires  time,  as  well  as  means.  Nor  would  it  be 
found  easy  suddenly  to  embark  them,  dispersed  as  they  would  be 
over  thirteen  states,  in  any  combinations  founded  upon  motives 
which,  though  they  could  not  properly  be  denominated  corrupt, 
might  yet  be  of  a  nature  to  mislead  them  from  their  duty. 

Another,  and  no  less  important  desideratum  was,  that  the  execu- 
tive should  be  independent  for  his  continuance  in  office,  on  all  but 


340  THE  FEDERALIST. 

the  people  themselves.  He  might  otherwise  be  tempted  to  sacri- 
fice his  duty  to  his  comphusnnce  for  those  whose  favour  was  neces- 
sury  to  the  duiation  of  his  official  consequence.  This  advantage 
will  also  be  secured,  by  makino-  his  rf  election  to  depend  on  a  spe- 
cial body  of  representatives,  deputed  by  the  society  for  the  single 
purpose  of  making  the  important  choice. 

All  these  advantages  will  be  happily  combined  in  the  plan  de- 
vised by  the  convention  ;  which  is,  that  each  state  shall  choose  a 
number  of  persons  as  electors,  equal  to  the  number  of  senators 
and  representatives  of  such  state  in  the  national  government,  who 
shall  assen)hle  within  the  state,  and  vote  for  some  fit  person  as 
president.  Their  votes,  thus  given,  are  to  be  transmitted  to  the 
seat  of  the  national  government  ;  and  tiie  person  who  may  hap- 
pen to  have  a  majority  of  the  whole  number  of  votes,  will  be  the 
president.  But  as  a  majority  of  the  votes  might  not  always 
happen  to  centre  in  one  man,  and  as  it  might  be  unsafe  to  per- 
mit less  than  a  majority  to  be  conclusive,  it  is  provided,  that  in 
such  a  contingency,  the  house  of  representatives  shall  select  out 
of  the  candidates,  who  shall  have  the  five  highest  numbers  of  votes, 
the  man  who,  in  their  opinion,  may  be  best  qualified  fi)r  the  ofiice. 

This  process  of  election  aftbrds  a  moral  certainty,  that  the  office 
of  president  will  seldom  fall  to  the  lot  of  any  man  who  is  not  in 
an  eminent  degree  endowed  with  the  requisite  qualifications.  Tal- 
ents for  low  intrigue,  and  the  little  arts  of  popularity,  may  alone 
suffice  to  elevate  a  man  to  the  first  honours  of  a  single  state  ;  but 
it  will  require  other  talents,  and  a  different  kind  of  merit,  to  es- 
tablish him  in  the  esteem  and  confidence  of  the  whole  union,  or 
of  so  considerable  a  portion  of  it,  as  would  be  necessary  to  make 
him  a  successful  candidate  for  the  distinguished  office  of  president 
of  the  United  States.  It  will  not  be  too  strong  to  say,  that  there 
will  be  a  constant  probability  of  seeing  the  station  filled  by  char- 
acters preeminent  for  ability  and  virtue.  And  this  will  be  thought 
no  inconsiderable  recommendation  of  the  constitution,  by  those 
who  are  able  to  estimate  the  share  which  the  executive  in  every  gov- 
ernment must  necessarily  have  in  its  good  or  ill  administration. 
Though  we  cannot  acquiesce  in  the  political  heresy  of  the  poet, 
who  says, 

"  For  forms  of  government,  let  fools  contest.... 
"  That  which  is  best  administered,  is  best ;" 

yet  we  may  safely  pronounce,  that  the  true  test  of  a  good  govern- 
ment is,  its  aptitude  and  tendency  to  produce  a  good  administra- 
tion. 

The  vice-president  is  to  be  chosen  in  the  same  manner  with  the 


THE  FEDERALIST.  341 

president;  with  this  difference,  that  the  senate  is  to  do,  in  respect 
to  the  former,  what  is  to  be  done  by  the  house  of  representatives, 
in  respect  to  the  hitter. 

The  appointment  of  an  extraordinary  person,  as  vice-president, 
has  been  objected  to  as  sui)erfluons,  if  not  miscliievous.  It  has 
been  alleo-cd,  that  it  would  liave  been  preferable  to  liave  autiioriz- 
ed  the  senate  to  elect  out  of  their  own  body  an  officer  answering 
to  that  description.  But  two  considerations  seem  to  justify  the 
ideas  of  the  convention  in  this  respect.  One  is,  that  to  secure  at 
all  times  the  possibility  of  a  definite  resolution  of  the  body,  it  is 
necessary  that  the  president  should  have  only  a  casting  vote.  And 
to  take  the  senator  of  any  state  from  his  seat  as  senator,  to  place 
him  in  that  of  president  of  the  senate,  would  be  to  exchange,  in 
regard  to  the  state  from  which  he  came,  a  constant  for  a  contin- 
gent vote.  The  other  consideration  is,  that  as  the  vice-president 
may  occasionally  become  a  substitute  for  the  president,  in  the  su- 
preme executive  magistracy,  all  the  reasons  which  recommend  the 
mode  of  election  prescribed  for  the  one,  apply  with  great,  if  not 
with  equal  force  to  the  manner  of  appointing  the  other.  It  is  re- 
markable, that  in  this,  as  in  most  other  instances,  the  objection 
which  is  made  would  lie  against  the  constitution  of  this  state. 
We  have  a  lieutenant-governour,  chosen  by  the  people  at  large, 
who  presides  in  the  senate,  and  is  the  constitutional  substitute  for 
the  governour,  in  casualties  similar  to  those  which  would  author- 
ize the  vice-president  to  exercise  the  authorities,  and  discharge 
the  duties  of  the  president.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXIX. 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  same  View  Continued,  with  a  Comparison  between  the  President 
and  the  King  of  Great  Britain,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  Govern- 
our of  New  York  on  the  other. 

I  PROCEED  now  to  trace  the  real  characters  of  the  proposed  ex- 
ecutive, as  they  are  marked  out  in  the  plan  of  tlie  convention. 
This  will  serve  to  place  in  a  strong  light  the  unfoirness  of  the 
representations  which  have  been  made  in  regard  to  it. 

The  first  thing  which  strikes  our  attention  is,  that  the  executive 
authority,  with  few  exceptions,  is  to  be  vested  in  a  single  magis- 
trate. This  will  scarcely,  however,  be  considered  as  a  point  upon 
which  any  comparison  can  be  grounded  ;  for  if,  in  this  particular, 


342  THE  FEDERALIST. 

there  be  a  resemblance  to  the  king  of  Great  Britain,  there  is  not  less 
a  resemblance  to  the  grand  seignior,  to  the  khan  of  T.i!  tary,  to  the 
man  of  the  seven  mountains,  or  to  the  governour  of  New  York. 

That  magistrate  is  to  be  elected  for  four  years  ;  and  is  to  be 
reeligible  as  often  as  the  people  of  the  United  States  shall  think 
him  worthy  of  their  confidence.  In  these  circumstances,  there  is 
a  total  dissimilitude  between  him  and  a  king  of  Great  Britain,  who 
is  an  liercditary  monarch,  possessing  the  crown  as  a  patrimony 
descendible  to  his  heirs  for  ever  ;  but  there  is  a  close  analogy  be- 
tween him  and  a  governour  of  r\'  &gt;v  York,  who  is  elected  for  three 
years,  and  is  reeligible  without  limitation  or  intermission.  If  we 
consider,  how  much  less  time  would  be  requisite  for  establishing  a 
dangerous  influence  in  a  single  state,  than  for  establishing  a  like 
influence  throughout  the  United  States,  we  must  conclude  that  a 
duration  o^  four  years  for  the  chief  magistrate  of  the  union,  is  a 
degree  of  permanency  far  less  to  be  dreaded  in  that  oflice,  than  a 
duration  of  three  years  for  a  correspondent  ofhce  in  a  single  state. 
'The  president  of  the  United  States  would  be  liable  to  be  im- 
peached, tried,  and,  upon  conviction  of  treason,  bribery,  or  other 
high  crimes  or  misdemeanors,  removed  from  ofhce  ;  and  would 
afterwards  be  liable  to  prosecution  and  punishment  in  the  ordinary 
course  of  law.  The  person  of  the  king  of  Great  Britain  is  sacred 
and  inviolable ;  there  is  no  constitutional  tribunal  to  which  he  is 
amenable;  no  punishment  to  which  he  can  be  subjected,  without 
involving  the  crisis  of  a  national  revolution.  In  this  delicate  and 
important  circumstance  of  personal  responsibility,  the  president 
of  confederated  America  would  stand  upon  no  better  ground  thaa 
a  governour  of  New  York,  and  upon  worse  ground  than  the  gov- 
ernotirs  of  Virginia  and  Delaware. 

The  president  of  the  United  States  is  to  have  power  to  return  a 
bill,  which  shall  have  passed  the  two  branches  of  the  legislature, 
for  reconsideration  ;  and  the  bill  so  returned,  is  not  to  become  a 
law,  unless  upon  that  reconsideration,  it  be  approved  by  two  thirds 
of  both  houses.  The  king  of  Great  Britain,  on  his  part,  has  an 
absolute  negative  upon  the  acts  of  the  two  houses  of  parliament. 
The  disuse  of  that  power  for  a  considerable  time  past,  does  not 
affect  the  reality  of  its  existence  ;  and  is  to  be  ascribed  wholly  to 
the  crown's  having  found  the  means  of  substituting  influence  to  au- 
thority, or  the  art  of  gaining  a  majority  in  one  or  the  other  of  the 
two  houses,  to  the  necessity  of  exerting  a  prerogative  which  could 
seldom  be  exerted  without  hazarding  some  degree  of  national 
agitation.  The  qualified  negative  of  the  president,  differs  widely 
from  this  absolute  negative  of  the  British  sovereign  ;    and  tallies 


THE  FEDERALIST.  343 

exactly  with  the  revisionary  authority  of  the  council  of  revision  of 
this  state,  of  which  the  governour  is  a  constituent  part.  In  this 
respect,  the  power  of  the  president  would  exceed  that  of  the  gov- 
ernour of  New  York;  because  the  former  would  possess,  singly, 
what  the  latter  shares  with  the  chancellor  and  judges  :  but  it  would 
be  precisely  the  same  with  that  of  the  governour  of  Massachusetts, 
whose  constitution,  as  to  this  article,  seems  to  have  been  the  origi- 
nal from  which  the  convention  have  copied. 

The  president  is  to  be  "  the  commander  in  chief  of  the  army 
♦'  and  navy  of  the  United  States,  and  of  the  militia  of  the  several 
"  states,  when  called  into  the  actual  service  of  the  United  States. 
"  He  is  to  have  power  to  grant  reprieves  and  pardons  for  offences 
*'  against  the  United  States,  except  in  cases  of  i7iipcac7unent ;  to 
*'  recommend  to  the  consideration  of  congress  such  measures  as 
"  he  shall  judge  necessary  and  expedient ;  to  convene,  on  extra- 
"  ordinary  occasions,  both  houses  of  the  legislature,  or  either  of 
*'  them,  and,  in  case  of  disagreement  between  them  tvith  respect  to 
"  the  time  of  adjourvment,  to  adjourn  them  to  such  time  as  he  shall 
"  think  proper  ;  to  take  care  that  the  laws  be  faithfully  executed  \ 
"  and  to  commission  all  oflicers  of  the  United  States."  In  most 
of  these  particulars,  the  power  of  the  president  will  resemble 
equally  that  of  the  king  of  Great  Britain,  and  of  the  governour  of 
JVew  York.  The  most  material  points  of  difference  are  these :.... 
First.  The  president  will  have  only  the  occasional  command  of 
such  part  of  the  militia  of  the  nation,  as  by  legislative  provision 
may  be  called  into  the  actual  service  of  the  union.  The  king  of 
Great  Britain,  and  the  governour  of  New  York,  have  at  all  times 
the  entire  command  of  all  the  militia  within  their  several  jurisdic- 
tions. In  this  article,  therefore,  the  power  of  the  president  would 
be  inferiour  to  that  of  either  the  monarch,  or  the  governour.  Sec- 
ond. The  president  is  to  be  commander  in  chief  of  the  army  and 
navy  of  the  United  States.  In  this  respect,  his  authority  would 
be  nominally  the  same  with  that  of  the  king  of  Great  Britain,  but 
in  substance  much  inferiour  to  it.  It  would  amount  to  nothing 
more  than  the  supreme  command  and  direction  of  the  military 
and  naval  forces,  as  first  general  and  admiral  of  the  confederacy  : 
while  that  of  the  British  king  extends  to  the  declaring  of  war,  and 
to  the  raising  and  regulating  of  fleets  and  armies  ;  all  which,  by 
the  constitution  under  consideration,  would  appertain  to  the  legis- 
lature.*   The  governour  of  New  York,  on  the  other  hand,  is  by  the 

*  A  writer  in  a  Pennsylvania  paper,  under  the  signature  of  Tamony,  has  asserted  that 
the  king  of  Great  Britain  owes  his  prerogatives,  as  commander  in  chief,  to  an  annual  mu- 
tiny bill.    The  truth  is,  on  the  contrary,  that  his  prerogative,  in  this  respect,  is  immemo- 


344  THE  FEDERALIST. 

constitution  of  the  state  vested  only  with  the  command  of  its  mili- 
tia and  navy.  But  the  constitutions  of  several  of  the  states,  ex- 
pressly declare  their  governours  to  be  commanders  in  chief,  as 
well  of  the  army  as  navy ;  and  it  may  well  be  a  question,  whether 
those  of  New  Hampshire  and  Massachusetts,  in  particular,  do  not, 
in  this  instance,  confer  larger  powers  upon  their  respective  gov- 
ernours, than  could  be  claimed  by  a  president  of  the  United  States. 
Third.  The  power  of  the  president,  in  respect  to  pardons,  would 
extend  to  all  cases,  except  those  of  impeachment.  The  governour 
of  New  York  may  pardon  in  all  cases,  even  in  those  of  impeach- 
ment, except  for  treason  and  murder.  Is  not  the  power  of  the 
governour  in  this  article,  on  a  calculation  of  political  consequen- 
ces, greater  than  that  of  the  president  1  All  conspiracies  and 
plots  against  the  government,  which  have  not  been  matured  into 
actual  treason,  may  be  screened  from  punishment  of  every  kind, 
by  the  interposition  of  the  prerogative  of  pardoning.  If  a  gov- 
ernour of  New  York,  therefore,  should  be  at  the  head  of  any  such 
conspiracy,  until  the  design  had  been  ripened  into  actual  hostility, 
he  could  ensure  his  accomplices  and  adherents  an  entire  impunity. 
A  president  of  the  union  on  the  other  hand,  though  he  may  even 
pardon  treason,  when  prosecuted  in  the  ordinary  course  of  law, 
could  shelter  no  offender,  in  any  degree,  from  the  effects  of  im- 
peachment and  conviction.  Would  not  the  prospect  of  a  total  in- 
demnity for  all  the  preliminary  steps,  be  a  greater  temptation  to 
undertake,  and  persevere  in  an  enterprise  against  the  public  liber- 
ty, than  the  mere  prospect  of  an  exemption  from  death  and  con- 
fiscation, if  the  final  execution  of  the  design,  upon  an  actual  ap- 
peal to  arms,  should  miscarry  1  Would  this  last  expectation  have 
any  influence  at  all,  when  the  probability  was  computed,  that  the 
person  who  was  to  afford  that  exemption  might  himself  be  involved 
in  the  consequences  of  the  measure;  and  might  be  incapacitated 
by  his  agency  in  it,  from  affording  the  desired  impunity  1  The 
better  to  judge  of  this  matter,  it  will  be  necessary  to  recollect, 
that  by  the  proposed  constitution,  the  oflence  of  treason  is  limited 
"  to  levying  war  upon  the  United  States,  and  adhering  to  their  ene- 
"  mies,  giving  them  aid  and  comfort ;"    and  that  by   the   laws  of 

rial,  and  was  only  disputed,  "  contraiy  to  all  reason  and  precedent,"  as  Blackstone,  vol. 
1,  page  262,  expresses  it,  by  tlie  long  parliament  of  Charles  first :  but  by  the  statute  the 
13tli  of  Charles  second,  chap.  G,  it  was  declared  to  be  in  the  king  alone,  for  that  the  sole 
supreme  government  and  command  of  the  niiliiia  within  his  majesty's  realms  and  domiij- 
ions,  and  of  all  forces  by  sea  and  land,  and  of  all  forts  and  places  of  strength,  ever  was 
AND  IS  the  undoubted  right  of  his  mnjesty  ami  his  royal  predecessors,  kings  and  queens 
of  England,  and  that  both  or  either  house  of  parliament  cannot  nor  ought  to  pretend  to 
the  same. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  345 

New  York,  it  is  confined  within  similar  bounds.  Fourth.  Tiie 
president  can  only  adjourn  the  national  legislature,  in  the  single 
case  of  disagreement  about  the  time  of  adjournment.  The  Brit- 
ish monarch  may  prorogue,  or  even  dissolve  the  parliament.  The 
governour  of  New  York  may  also  prorogue  the  legislature  of  this 
state  for  a  limited  time  ;  a  j)rerogative  which,  in  certain  situations, 
may  be  employed  to  very  important  purposes. 

The  president  is  to  have  power,  with  the  advice  and  consent  of 
the  senate,  to  make  treaties,  provided  two  thirds  of  the  senators 
present  concur.  The  king  of  Great  Britain  is  the  sole  and  abso- 
lute representative  of  the  nation,  in  all  foreign  transactions.  He 
can  of  his  own  accord  make  treaties  of  peace,  commerce,  alli- 
ance, and  of  every  other  description.  It  has  been  insiinuated,  that 
his  authority  in  this  respect  is  not  conclusive,  and  that  his  conven- 
tions with  foreign  powers  are  subject  to  the  revision,  and  stand  in 
need  of  the  ratification  of  parliament.  But  I  believe  this  doctrine 
was  never  heard  of,  till  it  was  broached  upon  the  present  occa- 
sion. Every  jurist*  of  that  kingdom,  and  every  other  man  acquaint- 
ed with  its  constitution,  knows,  as  an  established  fact,  that  the  pre- 
rogative of  making  treaties  exists  in  the  crown  in  its  utmost  plen- 
itude ;  and  that  the  compacts  entered  into  by  ihe  royal  authority 
have  the  most  complete  legal  validity  and  perfection,  independent 
of  any  other  sanction.  The  parliament,  it  is  true,  is  sometimes 
seen  employing  itself  in  altering  the  existing  laws  to  conform  them 
to  the  stipulations  in  a  new  treaty  ;  and  this  may  have  possibly  giv- 
en birth  to  the  imagination,  that  its  cooperation  was  necessary  to 
the  obligatory  efficacy  of  the  treaty.  But  tliis  parliamentary  in- 
terposition proceeds  from  a  difl^erent  cause  ;  from  the  necessity  of 
adjusting  a  most  artificial  and  intricate  system  of  revenue  and 
commercial  laws,  to  the  changes  made  in  them  by  the  operation 
of  the  treaty  ;  and  of  adapting  new  provisions  and  precautions  to 
the  new  state  of  things,  to  keep  the  machine  from  running  into 
disorder.  In  this  respect,  therefore,  there  is  no  comparison  be- 
tween the  intended  power  of  the  president,  and  the  actual  power 
of  the  British  sovereign.  The  one  can  perform  alone  what  the 
other  can  only  do  with  the  concurrence  of  a  branch  of  the  leg- 
islature. It  must  be  admitted,  that  in  this  instance,  the  power  of 
the  federal  executive  would  exceed  that  of  any  state  executive. 
But  this  arises  naturally  from  the  exclusive  possession  by  the  union 
of  that  part  of  the  sovereign  power  which  relates  to  treaties.  If 
the  confederacy  were  to  be  dissolved,  it  would  become  a  question, 
whether  the  executives  of  the  several  states  were  not  solely  invest- 
ed with  that  delicate  and  important  prerogative. 

*  Vide  Blackstone's  Commeularies,  vol.  1,  p.  257. 

43 


346  THE  FEDERALIST. 

The  president  is  also  to  be  authorized  to  receive  ambassadors, 
and  other  public  ministers.  This,  though  it  has  been  a  rich  theme 
of  declamation,  is  more  a  matter  of  dignity  than  of  authority.  It 
is  a  circumstance  which  will  be  without  consequence  in  the  ad- 
ministration of  the  government;  and  it  was  far  more  convenient 
that  it  should  be  arranged  in  this  manner,  than  that  there  should 
be  a  necessity  of  convening  the  legislature,  or  one  of  its  branches, 
upon  every  arrival  of  a  foreign  minister  ;  though  it  were  merely 
to  take  the  place  of  a  de|)arted  predecessor. 

The  president  is  to  nominate,  and,  imth  the  advice  and  consent 
of  the  senate,  to  appoint  ambassadors  and  other  public  ministers, 
judges  of  the  supreme  court,  and  in  general  all  officers  of  the 
United  States  established  by  law,  and  whose  apppointments  are 
not  otherwise  provided  for  by  the  constitution.  The  king  of  Great 
Britain  is  emphatically  and  truly  styled  the  fountain  of  honour. 
He  not  only  appoints  to  all  offices,  but  can  create  offices.  He 
can  confer  titles  of  nobility  at  pleasure  ;  and  has  the  disposal  of 
an  immense  number  of  church  prefeiments.  There  is  evidently 
a  great  inferiority  in  the  power  of  the  president,  in  this  particular, 
to  that  of  the  British  king;  nor  is  it  equal  to  that  of  the  governour 
of  New  York,  if  we  are  to  interpret  the  meaning  of  the  constitu- 
tion of  the  state  by  the  practice  which  has  obtained  under  it.  The 
power  of  appointment  is  with  us  lodged  in  a  council,  composed  of 
the  governour  and  four  members  of  the  senate, chosen  by  the  assem- 
bly. The  governour  claims,  and  has  frequently  cxerciscdlhe  right  of 
nomination,  and  is  entitled  to  a  casting  vote  in  the  appointment. 
If  he  really  has  the  right  of  nominating,  his  authority  is  in  this 
respect  equal  to  that  of  the  president,  and  exceeds  it  in  the  article 
of  the  casting  vote.  In  the  national  government,  if  the  senate 
should  be  divided,  no  appointment  could  be  made:  in  the  govern- 
ment of  New  York,  if  the  council  should  be  divided,  the  governour 
can  turn  the  scale,  and  confirm  his  own  nomination.*  If  we  com- 
pare the  publicity  which  must  necessarily  attend  the  mode  of 
appointment  by  the  president  and  an  entire  branch  of  the  national 
legislature,  with  the  privacy  in  the  mode  of  appointment  by  the 
governour  of  New  York,  closeted  in  a  secret  apartment  with  at 
most  four,  and  frequently  with  only  two  persons  ;  and  if  we  at 
the  same  time  consider,  how  much  more  easy  it  must  be  to  influ- 
ence the   small  number   of  which  a  council  of  appointment  con- 

*  Candour,  however,  flemands  an  acknowlerlgrnpiit.  thai  1  ilo  not  lliluk  the  claim  of  the 
governour  to  a  right  of  nomination  well  foiiiKlt'd.  Yet  it  is  always  jiistifiahle  to  reason 
from  tlie  practice  of  a  government,  till  its  propriety  has  been  constitutionally  qnesiioned. 
And  independent  of  this  claim,  vviien  we  take  into  view  the  other  considerations,  and  pyr- 
sue  them  through  all  their  consequences,  we  shall  be  inclined  to  draw  much  the  same  con- 
clusion. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  347 

sists,  than  the  considerable  number  of  which  the  national  senate 
would  consist,  we  cannot  hesitate  to  pronounce,  that  the  power  of 
the  chief  magistrate  of  this  state,  in  the  disposition  of  offices, 
must,  in  practice,  be  greatly  superiour  to  that  of  the  chief  magis- 
trate of  the  union. 

Hence  it  appears,  that  except  as  to  the  concurrent  authority  of 
the  president  in  the  article  of  treaties,  it  would  be  difficult  to  de- 
termine whether  that  magistrate,  would  in  the  aggregate,  possess 
more  or  less  power  than  the  governour  of  New  York.  And  it  ap- 
pears yet  more  unequivocally,  that  there  is  no  pretence  for  the 
parallel  which  has  been  attempted  between  him  and  the  king  of 
Great  Britain.  But  to  render  the  contrast,  in  this  respect,  still 
more  striking,  it  may  be  of  use  to  throw  the  principle  circumstan- 
ces of  dissimilitude  into  a  closer  group. 

The  president  of  the  United  States  would  be  an  officer  elected 
by  the  people  for  four  years  :  the  king  of  Great  Britain  is  a  perpet- 
ual and  hereditary  prince.  The  one  would  be  amenable  to  personal 
punishment  and  disgrace  :  the  person  of  the  other  is  sacred  and 
inviolable.  The  one  would  have  a  qualified  negative  upon  the  acts 
of  the  legislative  body  :  the  other  has  an  absolute  negative.  The  one 
would  have  a  right  to  command  the  military  and  naval  forces  of 
the  nation  :  the  other,  in  addition  to  this  right  possesses  that  oi  de- 
claring war,  and  of  raising  and  regulating  fleets  and  armies  by  his 
own  authority.  The  one  would  have  a  concurrent  power  with  a 
branch  of  the  legislature  in  the  formation  of  treaties  :  the  other  is 
the  sole  2}ossessor  of  the  power  of  making  treaties.  The  one  would 
have  a  like  concurrent  authority  in  appointing  to  offices  :  the  other 
is  the  sole  author  of  all  appointments.  The  one  can  confer  no 
privileges  whatever:  the  other  can  make  denizens  of  aliens,  noble- 
men of  commoners ;  can  erect  corporations  with  all  the  rights 
incident  to  corporate  bodies.  The  one  can  prescribe  no  rules 
concerning  the  commerce  or  currency  of  the  nation :  the  other  is 
in  several  respects  the  arbiter  of  commerce,  and  in  this  capacity 
can  establish  markets  and  fairs,  can  regulate  weights  and  meas- 
ures, can  lay  embargoes  for  a  limited  time,  can  coin  money,  can 
authorize  or  prohibit  the  circulation  of  foreign  coin.  The  one 
has  no  particle  of  spiritual  jurisdiction  :  the  other  is  the  supreme 
head  and  governour  of  the  national  church  !....What  answer  shall 
we  give  to  those  who  would  persuade  us,  that  things  so  unlike  re- 
semble each  other  ?....The  same  that  ought  to  be  given  to  those 
who  tell  us,  that  a  government,  the  whole  power  of  which  would 
be  in  the  hands  of  the  elective  and  periodical  servants  of  the  peo- 
ple, is  an  aristocracy,  a  monarchy,  and  a  despotism. 

PUBLIUS. 


348  THE  FEDERALIST. 

NO.  LXX. 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  same  View  Continued,  in  relation  to  the  Unity  of  the  Executivef 
and  with  an  Examination  of  the  Project  of  an  Executive  Council. 

There  is  an  idea,  which  is  not  without  its  advocates,  that  a  vig- 
orous executive  is  inconsistent  with  the  genius  of  republican  gov- 
ernment. The  enliglitened  wellwishers  to  this  species  of  govern- 
ment must  at  least  hope,  that  the  supposition  is  destitute  of  foun- 
dation ;  since  they  can  never  admit  its  truth,  without,  at  the  same 
lime,  admitting  the  condemnation  of  their  own  principles.  Ener- 
gy in  the  executive  is  a  leading  character  in  the  definition  of  good 
government.  It  is  essential  to  the  piotection  of  the  community 
against  foreign  attacks  :  it  is  not  less  essential  to  the  steady  ad- 
ministration of  the  laws  ;  to  the  protection  of  property  against 
those  irregular  and  high-handed  combinations  which  sometimes 
interrupt  the  ordinary  course  of  justice  ;  to  the  security  of  liberty 
against  the  enterprises  and  assaults  of  ambition,  of  faction,  and 
of  anarchy.  Every  man,  the  least  conversant  in  Roman  story» 
knows,  how  often  that  republic  was  obliged  to  take  refuge  in  the 
absolute  power  of  a  single  man,  under  the  formidable  title  of  dic- 
tator, as  well  against  the  intrigues  of  ambitious  individuals,  who 
aspired  to  the  tyranny,  and  the  seditions  of  whole  classes  of  the 
community,  whose  conduct  threatened  the  existence  of  all  govern- 
ment, as  against  the  invasions  of  external  enemies,  who  menaced 
the  conquest  and  destruction  of  Rome. 

There  can  be  no  need,  however,  to  multiply  arguments  or  ex- 
amples on  this  head.  A  feeble  executive  implies  a  feeble  execu- 
tion of  the  government.  A  feeble  execution  is  but  another  phrase 
for  a  bad  execution  :  and  a  government  ill  executed,  whatever  it 
may  be  in  theory,  must  be,  in  practice,  a  bad  government. 

Taking  it  for  granted,  therefore,  that  all  men  of  sense  will  agree 
in  the  necessity  of  an  energetic  executive,  it  will  only  remain  to 
inquire,  what  are  the  ingredients,  which  constitute  this  energy  1 
How  far  can  they  be  combined  with  those  other  ingredients  which 
constitute  safety  in  the  republican  sense  ?  And  how  far  does  this 
combination  characterize  the  plan  which  has  been  reported  by  the 
convention  1 

The  ingredients  which  constitute  energy  in  the  executive,  are, 
unity;  duration;  an  adequate  provision  for  its  support;  compe- 
tent powers. 

The  ingredients  which  constitute  safety  in  the  republican  sense 
are,  a  due  dependence  on  the  people  ;  a  due  responsibility. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  349 

Those  politicians  and  statesmen  who  have  been  the  most  cele- 
brated for  the  soundness  of  their  principles,  and  for  the  justness 
of  their  views,  have  declared  in  favour  of  a  single  executive,  and 
a  numerous  legislature.  They  have,  with  great  propriety,  consid- 
ered energy  as  the  most  necessary  qualification  of  tlie  former,  and 
have  regarded  this  as  most  applicable  to  power  in  a  singJe  hand  ; 
while  they  have,  with  equal  propriety,  considered  the  latter  as  best 
adapted  to  deliberation  and  wisdom,  and  best  calculated  to  concil- 
iate the  confidence  of  the  people,  and  to  secure  their  privileges 
and  interests. 

That  unity  is  conducive  to  energy,  will  not  be  disputed.  Decis- 
ion, activity,  secrecy,  and  despatch,  will  generally  characterize  the 
proceedings  of  one  man,  in  a  much  more  eminent  degree  than  the 
proceedings  of  any  greater  number  ;  and  in  proportion  as  the 
number  is  increased,  these  qualities  will  be  diminished. 

This  unity  may  be  destroyed  in  two  ways ;  either  by  vesting  the 
power  in  two  or  more  magistrates,  of  equal  dignity  and  authority  ; 
or  bv  vesting  it  ostensibly  in  one  man,  subject,  in  whole  or  in  part, 
to  the  control  and  cooperation  of  others,  in  the  capacity  of  coun- 
sellors to  him.  Of  the  first,  the  two  consuls  of  Rome  may  serve 
as  an  example  :  of  the  last,  we  shall  find  examples  in  the  consti- 
tutions of  several  of  the  states.  New  York  and  j\ew  Jersey,  if  I 
recollect  right,  are  the  only  states  which  have  entrusted  the  execu- 
tive authority  wholly  to  single  men.*  Both  these  methods  of 
destroying  the  unity  of  the  executive  have  their  partisans  ;  but  the 
votaries  of  an  executive  council  are  the  most  numerous.  They 
are  both  liable,  if  not  to  equal,  to  similar  objections,  and  may  in 
most  lights  be  examined  in  conjunction. 

The  experience  of  other  nations  will  afford  little  instruction  on 
this  head.  As  far,  however,  as  it  teaches  any  thing,  it  teaches  us 
not  to  be  enamoured  of  plurality  in  the  executive.  We  have  seen 
that  the  Achseans,  on  an  experiment  of  two  praetors,  were  induc- 
ed to  abolish  one.  The  Roman  history  records  many  instances 
of  mischiefs  to  the  republic  from  the  dissensions  between  the  con- 
suls, and  between  the  military  tribunes,  who  were  at  times  substi- 
tuted to  the  consuls.  But  it  gives  us  no  specimens  of  any  pe- 
culiar advantages  derived  to  the  state,  from  the  plurality  of 
those  magistrates.  That  the  dissensions  between  them  were 
not  more  frequent  or  more  fatal,  is  matter  of  astonishment, 
until  we  advert  to  the  singular  position  in  which  the   republic  was 

*  New  York  has  no  council  except  for  ihe  single  purpose  of  appointing  to  offices  :  New 
Jersey  has  a  council,  whom  the  governour  may  consult.  Bui  I  think,  from  the  terras  of 
the  constitution,  their  resolutions  do  not  bind  him. 


350  THE  FEDERALIST. 

almost  continually  placed,  and  to  the  prudent  policy  pointed 
ont  by  the  circumstances  of  the  state,  and  pursued  by  the  consuls, 
of  maUiiig  a  division  of  the  govcrnnieat  iietweeii  them.  The  patri- 
cians, engaged  in  a  perpetual  struggle  with  t!ie  plebeians  fur  the 
preservation  of  their  ancient  authorities  and  dignities  ;  the  con- 
suls, who  were  generally  chosen  out  of  the  former  body,  were 
commordy  united  by  the  personal  interest  they  had  in  the  defence 
of  the  privileges  of  their  order.  In  addition  to  this  motive  of 
union,  after  the  arms  of  the  republic  had  considerably  expanded 
the  bounds  of  its  empire,  it  become  an  established  custom  with  the 
consuls  to  divide  the  administration  between  themselves  by  lot ; 
one  of  them  remaining  at  Rome  to  govern  the  city  and  its  envi- 
rons;  the  other  taking  the  command  in  more  distant  provinces. 
This  expedient  must,  no  doubt,  have  had  great  influence  in  pre- 
venting those  collisions  and  rivalships  wliich  might  otherwise  have 
embroiled  the  republic. 

But  quitting  the  dim  light  of  historical  research,  and  attaching 
ourselves  purely  to  the  dictates  of  reason  and  good  sense,  we  shall 
discover  much  greater  cause  to  reject,  than  to  approve,  the  idea 
of  plurality  in  the  executive,  under  any  modification  whatever. 

Wherever  two  or  more  persons  are  engaged  in  any  conmion 
enterprise  or  pursuit,  there  is  always  danger  of  difference  of  opin- 
ion. If  it  be  a  public  trust  or  office,  in  which  they  are  clothed 
with  equal  dignity  and  authority,  there  is  peculiar  danger  of  per- 
sonal emulation  and  even  animosity.  From  either,  and  especially 
from  all  these  causes,  the  most  bitter  dissensions  are  apt  to  spring. 
Whenever  these  happen,  they  lessen  the  respectability,  weaken 
the  authority,  and  distract  the  plans  and  operations  of  those  whom 
they  divide.  If  they  should  unfortunately  assail  the  supreme  ex- 
ecutive magistracy  of  a  country,  consisting  of  a  plurality  of  per- 
sons they  might  impede  or  frustrate  the  most  important  measures 
of  the  government,  in  the  most  critical  emergencies  of  the  state. 
And  what  is  still  worse,  they  might  split  the  community  into  vio- 
lent and  irreconcilable  factions,  adhering  differently  to  the  differ- 
ent individuals  who  composed  the  magistracy. 

Men  often  oppose  a  thing,  merely  because  they  have  had  no 
agency  in  planning  it,  or  because  it  may  have  been  planned  by 
those  whom  they  dislike.  But  if  they  have  been  consulted,  and 
have  happened  to  disapprove,  opposition  then  becomes,  in  their 
estimation,  an  indispensable  duty  of  self-love.  They  seem  to 
think  themselves  bound  in  honour,  and  by  all  the  motives  of  person- 
al infallibility,  to  defeat  the  success  of  what  has  been  resolved  upon, 
contrary  to  their  sentiments.      Men  of  upright  and  benevolent 


THE  FEDERALIST.  351 

tempers  have  too  many  opportunities  of  remarking,  with  horrour, 
to  what  desperate  lengths  this  disposition  is  sometimes  carried, 
and  how  often  the  great  interests  of  society  are  sacrificed  to  the 
vanity,  to  the  conceit,  and  to  the  obstinacy  of  individuals,  who 
have  credit  enough  to  make  their  passions  and  their  caprices  in- 
teresting to  mankind.  Perhaps  the  question  now  before  the  pub- 
lic may,  in  its  consequences,  afford  melancholy  proofs  of  the  ef- 
fects of  this  despicable  frailty,  or  rather  detestable  vice  in  the 
human  character. 

Upon  the  ])rinciples  of  a  free  government,  inconveniences  from 
the  source  just  mentioned,  must  necessarily  be  submitted  to  in  the 
formation  of  the  legislature  ;  but  it  is  unnecessary,  and  therefore 
unwise,  to  introduce  them  into  the  constitution  of  the  executive. 
It  is  here  too,  that  they  may  be  most  pernicious.  In  the  legisla- 
ture, promptitude  of  decision  is  oftener  an  evil  than  a  benefit. 
The  differences  of  opinion,  and  the  jarrings  of  parties  in  that  de- 
partment of  the  government,  though  they  may  sometimes  obstruct 
salutary  plans,  yet  often  promote  deliberation  and  circumspection  ; 
and  serve  to  check  excesses  in  the  majority.  When  a  resojution, 
too,  is  once  taken,  the  opposition  must  be  at  an  end.  That  reso- 
lution is  a  law,  and  resistance  to  it  punishable.  But  no  favourable 
circumstances  palliate,  or  atone  for  the  disadvantages  of  dissen- 
sion in  the  executive  department.  Here,  they  are  pure  and  un- 
mixed. There  is  no  point  at  which  they  cease  to  operate.  They 
serve  to  embarrass  and  weaken  the  execution  of  the  plan  or  meas- 
ure to  which  they  relate,  from  the  first  step  to  the  final  conclusion 
of  it.  They  constantly  counteract  those  qualities  in  the  executive, 
which  are  the  most  necessary  ingredients  in  its  composition... .vig- 
our and  expedition  ;  and  this  without  any  counterbalancing  good. 
In  the  conduct  of  war,  in  which  the  energy  of  the  executive  is  the 
bulwark  of  the  national  security,  every  thing  would  be  to  be  ap- 
prehended from  its  plurality. 

It  must  be  confessed,  that  these  observations  apply  with  principal 
weight  to  the  first  case  supposed,  that  is,  to  a  plurality  of  magis- 
trates of  equal  dignity  and  authority  ;  a  scheme,  the  advocates  for 
which  are  not  likely  to  form  a  numerous  sect :  but  they  apply, 
though  not  with  equal,  yet  with  corjsiderable  weight,  to  the  project 
of  a  council,  whose  concurrence  is  made  constitutionally  necessa- 
ry to  the  operations  of  the  ostensible  executive.  An  artful  cabal 
in  that  council  would  be  able  to  distract  and  to  enervate  the  whole 
system  of  administration.  If  no  such  cabal  should  e^ist,  the 
mere  diversity  of  views  and  opinions  would  alone  be  sufficient  to 


352  THE  FEDERALIST. 

tincture  the  exercise  of  the  executive  authority  with  a  spirit  of 
habitual  feebleness  and  dilatoriness. 

But  one  of  the  weightiest  objections  to  a  plurality  in  the  execu- 
tive, and  which  lies  as  much  against  the  last  as  the  first  plan,  is, 
that  it  tends  to  conceal  faults,  and  destroy  responsibility.  Respon- 
sibility is  of  two  kinds,  to  censure  and  to  punishment.  The  first 
is  the  most  important  of  the  two  ;  especially  in  an  elective  office. 
Men  in  public  trust  will  much  oftener  act  in  such  a  manner  as  to 
render  them  unworthy  of  being  any  longer  trusted,  than  in  such  a 
manner  as  to  make  them  obnoxious  to  legal  punishment.  But  the 
multiplication  of  tiie  executive  adds  to  the  difficulty  of  detection 
in  either  case.  It  often  becomes  impossible,  amidst  nmtual  accu- 
sations, to  determine,  on  whom  the  blame  or  the  punishment  of  a 
pernicious  measure,  or  series  of  pernicious  measures  ought  real- 
ly to  fall.  It  is  shifted  from  one  to  another  with  so  much  dexteri- 
ty, and  under  such  plausible  appearances,  that  the  public  opinion 
is  left  in  suspense  about  the  real  author.  The  circumstances  w  hich 
may  have  led  to  any  national  miscarriage  or  misfortune,  are  some- 
times so  complicated,  that  where  there  are  a  number  of  actors 
who  may  have  had  dift'erent  degrees  and  kinds  of  agency,  though 
we  may  clearly  see  upon  the  whole  that  there  has  been  misman- 
agement, yet  it  may  be  impracticable  to  pronounce,  to  whose  ac- 
count the  evil  which  may  have  been  incurred  is  truly  chargeable. 

"  I  was  overruled  by  my  council.  The  council  were  so  di- 
"  vided  in  their  opinions,  that  it  was  impossible  to  obtain  any 
"  better  resolution  on  the  point."  These  and  similar  pretexts  are 
constantly  at  hand,  whether  true  or  false.  And  who  is  there  that 
will  either  take  the  trouble,  or  incur  the  odium,  of  a  strict  scrutiny 
into  the  secret  sprino;s  of  the  transaction  ?  Should  there  be  found 
a  citizen  zealous  enough  to  undertake  the  unpromising  task,  if 
there  happen  to  be  a  collusion  between  the  parties  concerned,  how 
easy  is  it  to  clothe  the  circumstances  with  so  much  ambiguity,  as 
to  render  it  uncertain,  what  was  the  precise  conduct  of  any  of 
those  parties  ? 

In  the  single  instance  in  which  the  governour  of  this  state  is 
coupled  with  a  council,  that  is,  in  the  appointment  to  offices,  we 
have  spen  the  mischiefs  of  it  in  the  view  now  under  consideration. 
Scandalous  appointments  to  important  offices  have  been  made. 
Some  cases  indeed  have  been  so  flagrant,  that  all  parties  have 
agreed  in  the  impropriety  of  the  thing.  When  inquiry  has  been 
made,  the  blame  has  been  laid  by  the  governour  on  the  members  of 
the  council  ;  who,  on  their  part,  have  charged  it  upon  his  nomina- 
tion :    while  the  people  remain  altogether  at  a  loss  to  determine. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  353 

by  whose  influence  their  interests  have  been  committed  to  hands  so 
manifestly  improper.  In  tenderness  to  individuals,  I  forbear  to 
descend  to  particulars. 

It  is  evident  from  these  considerations,  that  the  plurality  of  the 
executive  tends  to  deprive  the  people  of  the  two  greatest  securities 
they  can  have  for  the  faithful  exercise  of  any  delegated  power : 
First,  the  restraints  of  public  opinion,  which  lose  their  efficacy  as 
well  on  account  of  the  division  of  the  censure  attendant  on  bad 
measures  among  a  number,  as  on  account  of  the  uncertainty  on 
whom  it  ought  to  fall ;  and,  secondly,  the  opportunity  of  discover- 
ing with  facility  and  clearness  the  misconduct  of  the  persons  they 
trust,  in  order  either  to  their  removal  from  office,  or  to  their  actual 
punishment  in  cases  which  admit  of  it. 

In  England,  the  king  is  a  perpetual  magistrate  :  and  it  is  a 
maxim  which  has  obtained  for  the  sake  of  the  public  peace,  that 
he  is  unaccountable  for  his  administration,  and  his  person  sacred. 
Nothing,  therefore,  can  be  wiser  in  that  kingdom,  than  to  annex 
to  the  king  a  constitutional  council,  who  may  be  responsible  to 
the  nation  for  the  advice  they  give.  Without  this,  there  would  be 
no  responsibility  whatever  in  the  executive  department,  an  idea 
inadmissible  in  a  free  government.  But  even  there,  the  king  is 
not  bound  by  the  resolutions  of  his  council,  though  they  are 
answerable  for  the  advice  they  give.  He  is  the  absolutfi  master  of 
his  own  conduct  in  the  exercise  of  his  office ;  and  may  observe  or 
disregard  the  counsel   given  to  him  at  his  sole  discretion. 

But  in  a  republic,  where  every  magistrate  ought  to  be  personal- 
ly responsible  for  his  behaviour  in  office,  the  reason  which  in  the 
British  constitution  dictates  the  propriety  of  a  council,  not  only 
ceases  to  apply,  but  turns  against  the  institution.  In  the  mon- 
archy of  Great  Britain,  it  furnishes  a  substitute  for  the  prohibited 
responsibility  of  the  chief  magistrate  ;  which  serves  in  some  de- 
gree as  a  hostage  to  the  national  justice  for  his  good  behaviour. 
In  the  American  republic,  it  would  serve  to  destroy  or  would  great- 
ly diminish  the  intended  and  necessary  responsibility  of  the  chief 
magistrate  himself. 

The  idea  of  a  council  to  the  executive,  which  has  so  generally 
obtained  in  the  state  constitutions,  has  been  derived  from  that 
maxim  of  repubhcan  jealousy  which  considers  power  as  safer  in 
the  hands  of  a  number  of  men  than  of  a  single  man.  If  the  max- 
im should  be  admitted  to  be  applicable  to  the  case,  I  should  con- 
tend, that  the  advantage  on  that  side  would  not  counterbalance 
the  numerous  disadvantages  on  the  opposite  «ide.  Buf  I  do  not 
think  the  rule  at  all  applicable  to  the  executive  power.  I  clearly 
43 


354  THE  FEDERALIST. 

concur  in  opinion  in  this  particular  with  a  writer  whom  the  cele- 
brated Junius  prnnnunces  to  be  "  deep,  solid,  and  irifj^enious,"  that 
*' the  executive  power  is  more  eai^ily  confined  when  it  is  one  :"* 
that  it  is  far  more  safe  there  should  he  a  single  object  for  the  jeal- 
ousy and  watchfulness  of  the  people  ;  in  a  word,  that  all  multipli- 
cation of  the  executive,  is  rather  dangerous  than  friendly  to  lib- 
erty. 

A  little  consideration  will  satisfy  us,  that  the  species  of  securi- 
ty sought  for  in  the  multiplication  of  the  executive,  is  unattainable. 
Numbers  must  be  so  great  as  to  render  combination  difficult;  or 
they  are  rather  a  source  of  danger  tluin  of  security.  The  united 
credit  and  influence  of  several  individuals,  must  be  more  formida- 
ble to  liberty,  than  the  credit  and  influence  of  either  of  them 
separately.  When  power,  therefore,  is  placed  in  the  hands  of  so 
small  a  number  of  men,  as  to  admit  of  their  interests  and  views 
being  easily  combined  in  a  common  enterprise,  by  an  artful  leader, 
it  becomes  more  liable  to  abuse,  and  more  dangerous  when  abus- 
ed, than  if  it  be  lodged  in  tho  hands  of  one  man  ;  who,  from  the 
very  circumstance  of  his  being  alone,  will  be  more  narrowly 
watched  and  more  readily  suspected,  and  who  cannot  unite  so 
great  a  mass  of  influence  as  when  he  is  associated  with  others. 
The  decemvirs  of  Rome,  whose  name  denotes  their  number,t 
were  more  to  be  dreaded  in  their  usurpation  than  any  one  of 
them  would  have  been.  No  person  would  think  of  proposing  an 
executive  much  more  numerous  than  that  body  ;  from  six  to  a  dozen 
have  been  suggested  for  the  numbi  r  of  the  council.  The  extreme  of 
these  numbers,  is  not  too  great  for  an  easy  combination  ;  and  from 
such  a  combination,  Ameiica  would  have  more  to  fear,  than  from 
the  ambition  of  any  single  individual.  A  council  to  a  magistrate, 
who  is  himself  responsible  for  what  he  does,  are  generally  nothing 
better  than  a  clog  upon  his  good  intentions  ;  are  often  the  instru- 
ments and  accomplices  of  his  bad  ;  and  are  almost  always  a  cloak 
to  his  faults. 

I  forbear  to  dwell  upon  the  subject  of  expense  ;  though  it  be 
evident  that  if  the  council  should  be  numerous  enough  to  answer 
the  principal  end  aimed  at  by  the  institution,  the  salaries  of  the 
members,  who  must  be  drawn  from  their  homes  to  reside  at  the 
seat  of  government,  would  form  an  item  in  the  catalogue  of  pub- 
lic expenditures,  too  serious  to  be  incurred  for  an  object  of  equivo- 
cal utility. 

I  will  only  add,  that  prior  to  the  appearance  of  the  constitution, 
I  rarely  met  with  an  intelligent  man  from  any  of  the  states,  who 
*  De  Lolme.  i  Ten. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  355 

did  not  admit  as  the  result  of  experience,  that  the  unity  of  the  ex- 
ecutive of  this  state  was  one  of  the  best  of  the  distinguishing  feat- 
ures of  our  constitution.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXXI. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

7%g  same  View  Continued,  in  regard  to  the  Duration  of  the  Office. 

Duration  in  office,  has  been  mentioned  as  the  second  requisite 
to  the  energy  of  the  executive  authority.  This  has  relation  to 
two  objects:  to  the  personal  firniiiess  of  the  chief  magistrate,  in 
the  employment  of  liis  constitutional  powers  ;  and  to  the  stability 
of  the  system  of  administration,  which  may  have  been  adopted 
under  his  auspices.  With  regard  to  the  first,  it  must  be  evident, 
that  the  longer  the  duration  in  office,  the  greater  will  be  the  proba- 
bility of  obtaining  so  important  an  advantage.  It  is  a  general 
principle  of  human  nature  that  a  man  will  be  interested  in  what- 
ever he  possesses,  in  proportion  to  the  firmness  or  precariousness 
of  the  tenure  by  which  he  holds  it ;  will  be  less  attached  to  what 
he  holds  by  a  momentary  or  uncertain  title,  than  to  what  he  en- 
joys by  a  title  durable  or  certain  ;  and,  of  course,  will  be  willing 
to  risk  more  for  the  sake  of  the  one,  than  of  the  other.  This  re- 
mark is  not  less  applicable  to  a  political  privilege,  or  honour,  or 
trust,  than  to  any  article  of  ordinary  property.  The  inference 
from  it  is,  that  a  man  acting  in  the  capacity  of  chief  magistrate, 
under  a  consciousness  that  in  a  very  short  time,  hemust  lay  down 
his  otfice,  will  be  apt  to  feel  himself  too  little  interested  in  it,  to 
hazard  any  material  censure  or  perplexity,  from  the  independent 
exertion  of  his  powers,  or  from  encountering  the  ill-humours  how- 
ever transient,  which  may  happen  to  prevail,  either  in  a  consider- 
able part  of  the  society  itself,  or  even  in  a  predominant  faction  in 
the  legislative  body.  If  the  case  should  only  be,  that  he  might  lay 
it  down,  unless  continued  by  a  new  choice;  and  if  he  should  be 
desirous  of  being  continued,  his  wishes,  conspiring  with  his  fears, 
would  tend  still  more  powerfully  to  corrupt  his  integrity,  or  de- 
base his  fortitude.  In  either  case,  feebleness  and  irresolution  must 
be  the  characteristics  of  the  station. 

There  are  some,  who  would  be  inclined  to  regard  the  servile 
pliancy  of  the  executive,  to  a  prevailing  current,  either  in  the 
community,  or  in  the  legislature,  as  its  best  recommendation.  But 
such  men  entertain  very  crude  notions,  as  well  of  the  purposes  for 


356  THE  FEDERALIST. 

which  government  waa  instituted,  as  of  the  true  means  by  which 
the  public  happiness  may  be  promoted.     The  republican  principle 
demands,  that  the  deliberate  sense  of  the  community  should  gov- 
ern the  conduct  of  those  to  whom  they  entrust  the  management  of 
their  affairs;  but  it  does  not  require  an   unqualified  complaisance 
to  every  sudden  breeze  (jf  passion,  or  to  every  transient  impulse 
which  the  people  may  receive  from  the   arts  of   men,   who  flatter 
their  prejudices  to  betray  their  interests.     It  is  a  just  observation, 
that  the  people  commonly  intend  the  public  good.     This  often  ap- 
plies to  their  very  errours.     But  their  good  sense  would  despise 
the  adulator  who   should   pretend,  that  they  always  reason  right 
about  the  7neans  of  promoting  it.     They   know,   from   experience, 
that  they  sometimes  err  ;  and  the  wonder  is,  that  they  so  seldom 
err  as  they  do,  beset,  as  they  continually  are,  by  the  wiles  of  par- 
asites and  sycophants  ;  by  the  snares  of  the  ambitious,  the   avari- 
cious, the  desperate ;  by  the   artifices   of  men  who  possess  their 
confidence  more  than  they  deserve  it ;  and  of  those   who  seek  to 
possess,  rather  than  to  deserve  it.     When  occasions  present  them- 
selves, in  which  the  interests  of  the  people   are   at   variance  with 
their  inclinations,  it  is  the  duty  of  the  persons   whom   they   have 
appointed,  to  be  the   guardians   of  those   interests  ;    to  withstand 
the  temporary  delusion,  in  order  to  give  them   time  and  opportu- 
nity for  more  cool  and  sedate  reflection.     Instances  might  be   cit- 
ed, in  which  a  conduct  of  this  kind  has  saved  the  people  from  very 
fatal  consequences  of  their  own  mistakes,  and  has   procured   last- 
ing mo'.mments  of  their  gratitude  to  the  men  who  had  courage  and 
magnaiiiinit}'  enough  to  serve  them  at  the  peril  of  their  displeasure. 
But  however  inclined  we  might  be,  to  insist  upon  an  unbounded 
complaisance  in  the  executive   to  the  inclinations  of  the  people, 
we  can  with  no  propriety  contend  for  a  like   complaisance   to  the 
humours  of  the  legislature.     The  latter  may   sometimes   stand  in 
opposition  to  the  former  ;  and  at  other  times   the   people   may  be 
entirely  neutral.     In  either  supposition,   it  is  certainly   desirable, 
that  the  executive  should  be  in  a  situation  to  dare  to  act  his  own 
opinion  with  vigour  and  decision. 

The  sanre  rule  which  teaches  the  propriety  of  a  partition  be- 
tween the  various  branches  of  power,  teaches  likewise  that  this 
partition  ought  to  be  so  contrived  as  to  render  the  one  independent 
of  the  other.  To  what  purpose  separate  the  executive  or  the  ju- 
diciary from  the  legislative,  if  both  the  executive  and  the  judiciary 
are  so  constituted  as  to  be  at  the  absolute  devotion  of  the  legisla- 
tive 1  Such  a  separation  must  be  merely  nominal,  and  incapable 
of  producing  the  ends  for  which  it  was  established.      It  is  one 


THE  FEDERALIST.  357 

thing  to  be  subordinate  to  the  laws,  another  to  be  dependent  on 
the  legislative  body.  The  first  comports  with,  the  last  violates,  the 
fundamental  principles  of  good  government ;  and,  whatever  may  be 
the  forms  of  the  constitution,  unites  all  power  in  tiie  same  hands. 
The  tendency  of  the  legislative  authority  to  absorb  every  other,  has 
been  fully  displayed  and  illustrated  by  examjjles  in  some  preceding 
numbers.  In  governments  purely  republican,  this  tendency  is  al- 
most irresistible.  The  representatives  of  the  people,  in  a  popular 
assembly,  seem  sometimes  to  fancy,  that  they  are  the  people  them- 
selves, and  betray  strong  symptoms  of  impatience  and  disgust  at 
the  least  sign  of  opposition  from  any  other  quarter  ;  as  if  the  ex- 
ercise of  its  rights,  by  either  the  executive  or  judiciary,  were  a 
breach  of  their  privilege,  and  an  outrage  to  their  dignity.  They 
often  appear  disposed  to  exert  an  imperious  control  over  the  other 
departments;  and  as  they  commonly  have  the  people  on  their 
side,  they  always  act  with  such  momentum,  as  to  make  it  very 
difficult  for  the  other  members  of  the  government  to  maintain  the 
balance  of  the  constitution. 

It  may  perhaps  be  asked,  how  the  shortness  of  the  duration  in 
office  can  affect  the  independence  of  the  executive  on  the  le&lt;yisla- 
ture,  unless  the  one  were  possessed  of  the  power  of  appointing  or 
displacing  the  other.  One  answer  to  this  inquiry  may  be  drawn 
from  the  principle  already  mentioned,  that  is,  from  the  slender  in- 
terest a  man  is  apt  to  take  in  a  shortlived  advantage,  and  the  little 
inducement  it  affiirds  him  to  expose  himself,  on  account  of  it,  to, 
any  considerable  inconvenience  or  hazard.  Another  answer,  per- 
haps more  obvious,  though  not  more  conclusive,  will  result  from 
the  circumstance  of  the  influence  of  the  legislative  body  over  the 
people  ;  which  might  be  employed  to  prevent  the  reelection  of  a 
man  who,  by  an  upright  resistance  to  any  sinister  project  of  that 
body,  should  have  made  himself  obnoxious  to  its  resentment. 

It  may  be  asked  also,  whether  a  duration  of  four  years  would 
answer  the  end.  proposed ;  and  if  it  would  not,  whether  a  less 
period,  which  would  at  least  be  recommended  by  greater  security 
against  ambitious  designs,  would  not,  for  that  reason,  be  prefera- 
ble to  a  longer  period,  which  was,  at  the  same  time,  too  short  for 
the  purpose  of  inspiring  the  deso,ed  firmness  and  independence  of 
the  magistrate. 

It  cannot  be  affirmed,  that  a  duration  of  four  years,  or  any 
other  limited  duration,  would  completely  answer  the  end  proposed  ; 
but  it  would  contribute  towards  it  in  a  degree  which  would  have  a 
material  influence  upon  the  spirit  and  character  of  the  govern- 
ment.    Between  the  commencement  and  termination  of  such  a 


358  THE  FEDERALIST. 

period,  there  would  always  be  a  considerable  interval,  in  which  the 
prospect  of  an  aniiihilalion  would    be   sufficiently   remote,   not   to 
have  an  improper  effect  upon  tlie  conduct  of  a  man  endued  with  a 
tolerable  portion  of  fortitude ;  and  in  which  he   might  reasonably 
promise  himself,  that  there  would  be  time  enough  before  it   arriv- 
ed, to  make  the  community  sensible  of  the  propriety  of  the  meas- 
ures he  might  incline  to  pursue.     Though  it  be   probable,   that  as 
he  approached  the  moment  when  the  public  were,  by  a  new  elec- 
tion, to  signify  their  sense  of  his  conduct,  his  confidence,  and  with 
it  his  firmness,   would  decline  ;    yet  both  the  one   and   the  other 
would  derive  support  from    the  opportunities  which   his  previous 
continuance  in  the  station  had  afforded  him,   of  establishing  him- 
self in  the  esteem  and  good  will  of  his   constituents.      He   might 
then,  with  prudence,  hazard  the  incurring  of  reproach,  in  propor- 
tion to  the  proofs  he  had  given  of  his  wisdom    and   integrity,   and 
to  the  title  he  had  acquired  to  the  respect  and    attachment  of   his 
fellow-citizens.     As  on  the  one  hand,  a  duration  of  four  years  will 
contribute  to  the  firmness  of  the  executive   in  a  sufficient  degree 
to  render  it  a  very  valuable  ingredient  in  the  composition  ;    so  on 
the  other,  it  is  not  long  enough  to  justify  any  alarm  for  the   public 
liberty.     If  a  British  house  of  commons,  from  the  most  feeble  be- 
ginnings,/ro/H  the  mere  power  of  assenting  or  disagreeing  to  the  im- 
position of  a  new  tax,  have,  by  rapid  strides,  reduced  the    preroga- 
tives of  the  crown,  and  the  privileges  of  the   nobility,  within   the 
limits  they  conceive  to  be  compatible  with  the  principles  of  a  free 
government,  while  they  raised  themselves  to  the  rank  and   conse- 
quence of  a  coequal  branch  of  the  legislature  ;  if  they  have   been 
able,  in  one  instance,  to  abolish  both  the  royalty  and   the   aristoc- 
racy, and  to  overturn   all   the  ancient  establishments,   as   well  in 
the  churcli  as  state  ;  if  they  have  been  able,  on  a  recent  occasion, 
to  make  the  monarch  tremble  at   the   prospect  of  an  innovation* 
attempted  by  them  ;  what  would  be  to  be  feared  from  an   elective 
magistrate  of  four  years'  duration,  with   the   confined   authorities 
of  a  president  of  the  United  States?     What,  but  that  he  might  be 
unequal  to  the  task  which  the  constitution  assigns   him  ?     I  shall 
only  add,  that  if  his  duration  be  such  as  to  leave   a  doubt  of  his 
firmness,   that  doubt  is  inconsistent  with   a  jealousy   of   his  en- 
croachments. PUBLIUS. 

*  This  was  the  case  with  respect  to  Mr.  Fox's  India  bill,  which  was  carried  in  the  house 
of  commons,  and  rejected  in  the  house  of  lords,  to  the  entire  satislaction,  as  it  is  said,  of 
the  people. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  359 

NO.  LXXII 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  sawic   View  Continued,  in  regard  to  the  Recligihility  of  the 

President. 

The  administration  of  government,  in  its  largest  sense,  compre- 
hends all  the  operations  of  the  body  politic,  whether  legislative, 
executive,  or  judiciary ;  but  in  its  most  usual,  and  perhaps  in  its 
most  precise  signification,  it  is  limited  to  executive  details,  and 
falls  peculiarly  within  the  province  of  the  executive  department. 
The  actual  conduct  of  foreign  negotiations,  the  preparatory  plans 
of  finance,  the  ap|)lication  and  disbursement  of  the  public  moneys 
in  conformity  to  the  general  appropriations  of  the  legislature,  the 
arrangement  of  the  army  and  navy,  the  direction  of  the  ()pera- 
tions  of  war  ;  these,  and  other  matters  of  a  like  nature,  constitute 
what  seems  to  be  most  properly  understood  by  the  administration 
of  government.  The  persons,  therefore,  to  wliose  immediate 
management  these  different  matters  are  committed,  ought  to  be 
considered  as  the  assistants  or  deputies  of  the  chief  magistrate; 
and  on  this  account,  they  ought  to  derive  their  offices  from  his  ap- 
pointment, at  least  from  his  nomination,  and  to  be  subject  to  his 
superintendence.  This  view  of  the  thing  will  at  once  suggest  to 
us  the  intimate  connexion  between  the  duration  of  the  executive 
magistrate  in  office,  and  the  stability  of  the  system  of  administra- 
tion. To  undo  what  has  been  done  by  a  predecessor,  is  very  often 
considered  by  a  successor  as  the  best  proof  he  can  give  of  his 
own  capacity  and  desert;  and  in  addition  to  this  propensity,  where 
the  alteration  has  been  the  result  of  public  choice,  the  person  sub- 
stituted is  warranted  in  supposing,  that  the  dismission  of  his  pre- 
decessor has  proceeded  from  a  dislike  to  his  measures,  and  that 
the  less  he  resembles  him,  the  more  he  will  recommend  himself  to 
the  favour  of  his  constituents.  These  considerations,  and  the  in- 
fluence of  personal  confidences  and  attachments,  would  be  likely 
to  induce  every  new  president  to  promote  a  change  of  men  to  fill 
the  subordinate  stations ;  and  these  causes  together  could  not  fail 
to  occasion  a  disgraceful  and  ruinous  mutability  in  the  administra- 
tion of  the  government. 

With  a  positive  duration  of  considerable  extent,  I  connect  the 
circumstance  of  reeligibility.  The  first  is  necessary,  to  give  the 
officer  himself  the  inclination  and  the  resolution  to  act  his  part 
well,  and  to  the  community  time  and  leisure  to  observe  the  ten- 
dency of  his  measures,  and  thence  to  form  an  experimental  esti- 
mate of  their  merits.     The  last  is  necessary  to  enable  the  people, 


360  THE  FEDERALIST. 

when  they  see  reason  to  approve  of  his  conduct,  to  continue  him 
in  the  station,  in  order  to  prolong  the  utility  of  his  talents  and 
virtues,  and  to  secure  to  the  government  the  advantage  of  perma- 
nency in  a  wise  system  of  administration. 

Nothing  appears  more  plausible  at  first  sight,  nor  more  ill- 
founded  upon  close  inspection,  than  a  scheme  which,  in  relation  to 
the  present  point,  has  had  some  respectable  advocates....!  mean 
that  of  continuing  the  chief  magistrate  in  office  for  a  certain  time, 
and  then  excluding  him  from  it,  either  for  a  limited  period  or  for 
ever  after.  This  exclusion,  whether  temporary  or  perpetual,  would 
have  nearly  the  same  effects ;  and  these  effects  would  be  for  the 
most  part  rather  pernicious  than  salutary. 

One  ill  efiect  of  the  exclusion  would  be  a  diminution  of  the 
inducements  to  good  behaviour.  There  are  few  men  who  would 
not  feel  much  less  zeal  in  the  discharge  of  a  duty,  when  they  were 
conscious  that  the  advantage  of  the  station,  with  which  it  was  con- 
nected, must  be  relinquished  at  a  determinate  period,  than  when 
they  were  permitted  to  entertain  a  hope  of  ohtaining,  by  mcritiagj 
a  continuance  of  them.  This  position  will  not  be  disputed,  so 
long  as  it  is  admitted,  tiiat  the  desire  of  reward  is  one  of  the 
strongest  incentives  of  human  conduct ;  or  that  the  best  security 
for  tlie  fidelity  of  mankind,  is  to  make  interest  coincide  with  duty. 
Even  the  love  of  fame,  the  ruling  passion  of  the  noblest  minds,  which 
would  prompt  a  man  to  plan  and  undertake  extensive  and  arduous 
enterprises  for  the  public  benefit,  requiring  considerable  time  to 
mature  and  perfect  them,  if  he  could  flatter  himself  with  the  pros- 
pect of  being  allowed  to  finish  what  he  had  begun,  would,  on  the 
contrary,  deter  him  from  the  undertaking,  when  he  foresaw  that 
be  must  quit  the  scene  before  he  could  accomplish  the  work,  and 
must  commit  that,  together  with  his  own  reputation,  to  hands 
which  might  be  unequal  or  unfriendly  to  the  task.  The  most  to 
be  expected  from  the  generality  of  men,  in  such  a  situation,  is  the 
negative  merit  of  not  doing  harm,  instead  of  the  positive  merit  of 
doing  good. 

Another  ill  effect  of  the  exclusion  would  be  the  temptation  to 
sordid  views,  to  peculation,  and  in  some  instances  to  usurpation. 
An  avaricious  man,  who  might  happen  to  fill  the  office,  looking 
forward  to  a  tijne  when  he  must  at  all  events  yield  up  the  advan- 
tages he  enjoyed,  would  feel  a  propensity,  not  easy  to  be  resisted 
by  such  a  man,  to  make  the  best  use  of  his  opportunities,  while 
they  lasted ;  and  might  not  scruple  to  have  recourse  to  the  most 
corrupt  expedients  to  make  the  harvest  as  abundant  as  it  was  tran- 
sitory ;  though  the  same  person,  probably,  with  a  different  pros- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  361 

pect  before  him,  might  content  himself  with  the  regular  emolu- 
ments of  his  station,  and  might  even  be  unwilling  to  risk  the  con- 
sequences of  an  abuse  of  his  opportunities.  His  avarice  might 
be  a  guard  upon  his  avarice.  Add  to  this,  that  the  same  man 
mi^ht  be  vain  or  ambitious,  as  well  as  avaricious.  And  if  he  could 
expect  to  prolong  his  honours  by  his  good  conduct,  he  might  hesi- 
tate to  sacrifice  his  appetite  for  them  to  his  appetite  for  gain.  But 
with  the  prospect  before  him  of  approaching  an  inevitable  anni- 
hilation, his  avarice  would  be  likely  to  get  the  victory  over  his 
caution,  his  vanity,  or  liis  ambition. 

An  ambitious  man  too,  finding  hin}self  seated  on  the  summit  of 
his  country's  honours,  looking  forward  to  the  time  at  which  he  must 
descend  from  the  exalted  eminence  forever,  and  reflecting  that  no 
exertion  of  merit  on  his  part  could  save  him  from  the  unwelcome 
reverse,  would  be  much  more  violently  tempted  to  embrace  a  fa- 
vourable conjuncture  for  attempting  the  prolongation  of  his  power, 
at  every  personal  hazard,  than  if  he  had  the  probability  of  an- 
swering the  same  end  by  doing  his  duty. 

Would  it  promote  the  peace  of  the  community,  or  the  stability 
of  the  government,  to  have  half  a  dozen  men  who  had  had  credit 
enough  to  raise  themselves  to  the  seat  of  the  supreme  magistracy, 
wandering  among  the  people  like  discontented  ghosts,  and  sighing 
for  a  place  which  they  were  destined  never  more  to  possess  ? 

A  third  ill  effect  of  the  exclusion  would  he,  depriving  the  com- 
munity of  the  advantage  of  the  experience  gained  by  tlie  chief 
magistrate  in  the  exercise  of  his  office.  That  experience  is  the 
parent  of  wisdom,  is  an  adage,  the  truth  of  which  is  recognised  by 
the  wisest  as  well  as  the  simplest  of  mankind.  What  more  desir- 
able or  more  essential  than  this  quality  in  the  governours  of  na- 
tions 1  Where  more  desirable  or  more  essential,  than  in  the  first 
magistrate  of  a  nation  ?  Can  it  be  wise  to  put  this  desirable 
and  essential  quality  under  the  ban  of  the  constitution;  and  to 
declare  that  the  moment  it  is  acquired,  its  possessor  shall  be  com- 
pelled to  abandon  the  station  in  which  it  was  acquired,  and  to 
which  it  is  adapted  1  This,  nevertheless,  is  the  precise  import  of 
all  those  regulations  which  exclude  men  from  serving  their  coun- 
try, by  the  choice  of  their  fellow-citizens,  after  they  have,  by  a 
course  of  service,  fitted  themselves  for  doing  it  with  a  greater  de- 
gree of  utility. 

A  fourth  ill  effect  of  the  exclusion  would  be,  the  banishing  men 

from  stations  in  which,  in  certain  emergencies   of  the   state,  their 

presence  might  be  of  the  greatest  moment  to  the  public  interest 

or  safety.     There  is  no  nation  which  has  not,  at  one  period  or 

44 


863  THE  FEDERALIST. 

another,  experienced  an  absolute  necessity  of  the  services  of  par- 
ticular men,  in  particular  situations,  perhaps  it  would  not  be  too 
strong  to  say,  to  the  preservation  of  its  political  existence.  How 
unwise,  therefore,  must  he  every  such  self-denying  ordinance,  as 
serves  to  prohibit  a  nation  from  making  use  of  its  own  citizens, 
in  the  manner  best  suited  to  its  exigencies  and  circumstances! 
Without  supposing  the  personal  essentiality  of  the  man,  it  is  evi- 
dent that  a  change  of  the  chief  magistrate,  at  the  breaking  out  of 
a  war,  or  any  similar  crisis,  for  another  even  of  equal  merit,  would 
at  all  times  be  detrimental  to  the  community  ;  inasmuch  as  it 
would  substitute  inexperience  to  experience,  and  would  tend  to 
unhinge  and  set  afloat  the  already  settled  train  of  the  adminis- 
tration. 

A  fifth  ill  effect  of  the  exclusion  would  be,  that  it  would  operate 
as  a  constitutional  interdiction  of  stability  in  the  administration. 
By  inducing  the  necessity  of  a  change  of  men,  in  the  first  office 
in  the  nation,  it  would  necessarily  lead  to  a  mutability  of  meas- 
ures. It  is  not  generally  to  be  expected,  that  men  will  vary,  and 
measures  remain  uniform.  The  contrary  is  the  usual  course  of 
things.  And  we  need  not  he  apprehensive  that  there  will  be  too 
much  stability,  while  there  is  even  the  option  of  changing;  nor 
need  we  desire  to  prohibit  the  people  from  continuing  their  confi- 
dence where  they  think  it  may  be  safely  placed,  and  where,  by 
constancy  on  their  part,  they  may  obviate  the  fatal  inconvenien- 
ces of  fluctuating  councils  and  a  variable  policy. 

These  are  some  of  the  disadvantages  which  would  flow  from 
the  principle  of  exclusion.  They  apply  most  forcibly  to  the 
scheme  of  a  perpetual  exclusion  ;  but  when  we  consider,  that  even 
a  partial  one  would  always  render  the  readmission  of  the  person  a 
remote  and  precarious  object,  the  observations  which  have  been 
made  will  apply  nearly  as  fully  to  one  case  as  to  the  other. 

What  are  the  advantages  promised  to  counterbalance  the  evils? 
They  are  represented  to  be:  Ist.  Greater  independence  in  the 
magistrate  :  2d.  Greater  sectirity  to  the  people.  Unless  the  ex- 
clusion be  perpetual,  there  will  be  no  pretence  to  infer  the  first 
advantage.  But  even  in  that  case,  may  he  have  no  object  beyond 
his  present  station,  to  which  he  may  sacrifice  his  independence  1 
may  he  have  no  connexions,  no  friends,  for  whom  he  may  sacrifice 
it?  May  he  not  be  less  willing,  by  a  firm  conduct,  to  make  per- 
sonal enemies,  when  lie  acts  under  the  impression,  tiiat  a  time  is 
fast  approaching,  on  the  arrival  of  m  liich  he  not  only  may,  but 
MUST  be  exposed  to  their  resentments,  upon  an  equal,  perhaps 
upon  an  inferiour  fooling  ?     It  is  not  an  easy  point  to  determine. 


THE  FEDERALIST. 

whether  his  independence  would  be  most  promoted  or  impaired  by 
such  an  arrangement. 

As  to  the  second  supposed  advantage,  there  is  still  greater  reas- 
on to  entertain  doubts  concerning  it,  especially  if  the  exchision 
were  to  be  perpetual.  In  this  case,  as  already  intimated,  a  man  of 
irregular  ambition,  of  whom  alone  there  could  be  reason  in  any 
case  to  entertain  apprehensions,  would,  with  infinite  reluctance, 
yield  to  the  necessity  of  taking  his  leave  for  ever  of  a  post,  ia 
which  his  passion  for  power  and  preeminence  had  acquired  the 
force  of  habit.  And  if  he  had  been  fortunate  or  adroit  enough  to 
conciliate  the  good  will  of  the  people,  he  might  induce  them  to 
consider  as  a  very  odious  and  unjustifiable  restraint  upon  them- 
selves, a  provision  which  was  calculated  to  debar  them  of  the 
right  of  giving  them  a  fresh  proof  of  their  attachment  to  a  favour- 
ite. There  may  be  conceived  circumstances  in  which  this  disgust 
of  the  people,  seconding  the  thwarted  ambition  of  such  a  favour- 
ite, might  occasion  greater  danger  to  liberty,  than  could  ever  reas- 
onably be  dreaded  from  the  possibility  of  a  perpetuation  in  office, 
by  the  voluntary  suffrages  of  the  community,  exercising  a  consti- 
tutional privilege. 

There  is  an  excess  of  refinement  in  the  idea  of  disabling  the 
people  to  continue  in  office  men  who  had  entitled  themselves,  in 
their  opinion,  to  approbation  and  confidence  ;  the  advantages  of 
which  are  at  best  speculative  and  equivocal,  and  are  overbalanced 
by  disadvantages  far  more  certain  and  decisive.         PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXXIII. 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  same  View  Continued,  in  relation  to  the  provisions  concerning 
Sujjport,  and  the  Power  of  the  Negative. 

The  third  ingredient  towards  constituting  the  vigour  of  the  ex- 
ecutive authority,  is  an  adequate  provision  for  its  support.  It  is 
evident,  that  without  proper  attention  to  this  article,  the  separa- 
tion of  the  executive  from  the  legislative  department,  would  be 
merely  nominal  and  nugatory.  The  legislature,  with  a  discre- 
tionary power  over  the  salary  and  emoluments  of  the  chief  mag- 
istrate, could  render  him  as  obsequious  to  their  will,  as  they  might 
think  proper  to  make  him.  They  might,  in  most  cases,  either  re- 
duce him  by  famine,  or  tempt  him  by  largesses,  to  surrender  at 
discretion  his  judgment  to  their  inclinations.     These  expressions, 


364  THE  FEDERALIST.  ' 

taken  in  all  the  latitude  of  the  terms,  would  no  douht  convey  more 
than  is  intended.  There  are  men  who  could  neither  be  distressed, 
nor  won,  into  a  socrifice  of  their  duty  ;  but  this  stern  virtue  is  the 
growth  of  few  soils  :  and  in  the  main  it  will  be  found,  that  a  pow- 
er over  a  man's  support,  is  a  power  over  his  will.  If  it  were  neces- 
sary to  confirm  so  plain  a  truth  by  facts,  examples  would  not 
be  wanting,  even  in  this  country,  of  the  intimidation  or  seduction 
of  the  executive  by  the  terrours,  or  allurements,  of  the  pecuniary 
arrangements  of  the  legislative  body. 

It  is  not  easy,  therefore,  to  commend  too  highly  the  judicious 
attention  which  has  been  paid  to  this  subject  in  the  proposed  con- 
stitution. It  is  there  provided,  tiiat  "the  president  of  the  United 
•'  States  shall,  at  stated  times,  receive  for  liis  service  a  compensa- 
"  tion,  which  shall  neither  be  increased,  nor  diminished,  during  the 
'^  period  for  2ohich  he  shall  have  been  elected;  and  he  shall  not  re- 
*'  ceive  within  that  period  any  other  emolument  from  the  United 
♦'  States,  or  any  of  them."  It  is  impossible  to  imagine  any  pro- 
vision, which  would  have  been  more  eligible  than  this.  The  leg- 
islature, on  the  appointment  of  a  president,  is  once  for  all  to  de- 
clare what  shall  be  the  compensation  for  his  services  during  the 
time  for  which  he  shall  have  been  elected.  This  done,  they  will 
have  no  power  to  alter  it,  either  by  increase  or  diminution,  till  a 
new  period  of  service  by  a  new  election  commences.  They  can 
neither  weaken  his  fortitude  by  operating  upon  his  necessities,  nor 
corru|)t  his  integrity  by  appealing  to  his  avarice.  Neither  the 
union,  nor  any  of  its  members,  will  be  at  liberty  to  give,  nor  will 
he  be  at  liberty  to  receive,  any  other  emolument  than  that  which 
may  have  been  determined  by  the  first  act.  He  can  of  course 
have  no  pecuniary  inducement  to  renounce  or  desert  the  indepen- 
dence intended  for  him  by  the  constitution. 

The  last  of  the  requisites  to  energy,  which  have  been  enumer- 
ated, is  competent  powers.  Let  us  proceed  to  consider  those 
which  are  proposed  to  be  vested  in  the  president  of  the  United 
States. 

The  first  thing  that  offers  itself  to  our  observation,  is  the  quali- 
fied negative  of  the  president  upon  the  acts  or  resolutions  of  the 
two  houses  of  the  legislature  ;  or,  in  other  words,  his  power  of 
returning  all  bills  with  objections,  which  will  have  the  efiect  of 
preventing  their  becoming  laws,  unless  they  should  afterwards  be 
ratified  by  two  thirds  of  each  of  the  component  members  of  the 
legislative  body. 

The  propensity  of  the  legislative  department  to  intrude  upon 
the  rights,  and  to  absorb  the  powers,   of  the  other  departments, 


THE  FEDERALIST.  365 

has  been  already  more  than  once  suggested  ;  the  insufficiency  of 
a  mere  parchment  delineation  of  the  boundaries  of  each,  has  also 
been  remarked  upon  ;  and  the  necessity  of  furnishing  each  with 
constitutional  arms  for  its  own  defence,  has  been  inferred  and 
proved.  From  these  clear  and  indubitable  principles,  results  the 
propriety  of  a  negative,  either  absolute  or  qualified,  in  the  execu- 
tive, upon  the  acts  of  the  legislative  branches.  Without  the  one 
or  the  other,  the  former  would  be  absolutely  unable  to  defend  him- 
self against  the  depredations  of  the  latter.  He  might  gradually 
be  stripped  of  his  authorities  by  successive  resolutions,  or  annihi- 
lated by  a  single  vote.  And  in  the  one  mode  or  the  other,  the  leg- 
islative and  executive  powers  might  speedily  come  to  be  blended 
in  the  same  hands.  If  even  no  propensity  had  ever  discovered 
itself  in  the  legislative  body,  to  invade  the  rights  of  the  executive, 
the  rules  of  just  reasoning  and  theoretic  propriety  would  of  them- 
selves teach  us,  that  the  one  ought  not  to  be  left  at  the  mercy  of 
the  other,  but  ought  to  possess  a  constitutional  and  effectual  power 
of  self-defence. 

But  the  power  in  question  has  a  further  use.  It  not  only  serves 
as  a  shield  to  the  executive,  but  it  furnishes  an  additional  security 
against  the  enaction  of  improper  laws.  It  establishes  a  salutary 
check  upon  the  legislative  body,  calculated  to  guard  the  commu- 
nity against  the  effects  of  faction,  precipitancy,  or  of  any  impulse 
unfriendly  to  the  public  good,  which  may  happen  to  influence  a 
majority  of  that  body. 

The  propriety  of  a  negative  has,  upon  some  occasions,  been 
combated  by  an  observation,  that  it  was  not  to  be  presumed  a  sin- 
gle man  would  possess  more  virtue  and  wisdom  than  a  number  of 
men ;  and  that  unless  this  presumption  should  be  entertained,  it 
would  be  improper  to  give  the  executive  magistrate  any  species  of 
control  over  the  legislative  body. 

But  this  observation,  when  examined,  will  appear  rather  spe- 
cious than  solid.  The  propriety  of  the  thing  does  not  turn  upon 
the  supposition  of  superiour  wisdom  or  virtue  in  the  executive  ;  but 
upon  the  supposition,  that  the  legislative  will  not  be  infallible  ; 
that  the  love  of  power  may  sometimes  betray  it  into  a  disposition 
to  encroach  upon  the  rights  of  the  other  members  of  the  govern- 
ment ;  that  a  spirit  of  faction  may  sometimes  pervert  its  delibera- 
tions ;  that  impressions  of  the  moment  may  sometimes  hurry  it 
into  measures  which  itself,  on  mature  reflection,  would  condemn. 
The  primary  inducement  to  conferring  the  power  in  question  upon 
the  executive  is,  to  enable  him  to  defend  himself:  the  secondary 
is,  to  increase  the  chances  in  favour  of  the  community  agijinst  the 


366  THE  FEDERALIST. 

passing  of  bad  laws,  through  baste,  inadvertence,  or  design.  The 
oftener  a  measure  is  brought  under  examination,  the  greater  the 
diversity  in  the  situations  of  those  who  are  to  examine  it,  the  less 
must  be  the  danger  of  those  errours  which  flow  from  want  of  due 
deliberation,  or  of  those  missteps  which  proceed  from  the  conta- 
gion of  some  common  passion  or  interest.  It  is  far  less  probable, 
that  culpable  views  of  any  kind  should  infect  all  the  parts  of  the 
government  at  the  same  moment,  and  in  relation  to  the  same  ob- 
ject, than  that  they  sliould  by  turns  govern  and  mislead  every  one 
of  them. 

It  may  perhaps  be  said  that  the  power  of  preventing  bad  laws 
includes  that  of  preventing  good  ones  ;  and  may  be  used  to  the 
one  purpose  as  well  as  to  the  other.  But  this  objection  will  have 
little  weight  with  those  who  can  properly  estimate  the  mischiefs  of 
that  inconstancy  and  mutability  in  the  laws,  which  form  the  great- 
est blemish  in  the  character  and  genius  of  our  governments.  They 
will  consider  every  institution  calculated  to  restrain  the  excess  of 
law-making,  and  to  keep  things  in  the  same  state  in  which  they 
may  happen  to  be  at  any  given  period,  as  much  more  likely  to  do 
good  than  harm  ;  because  it  is  favourable  to  greater  stability  in 
the  system  of  legislation.  The  injury  which  may  possibly  be  done 
by  defeating  a  [ew  good  laws,  will  be  amply  compensated  by  the 
advantage  of  preventing  a  number  of  bad  ones. 

Nor  is  this  all.  The  superiour  weight  und  influence  of  the  leg- 
islative body  in  a  free  government,  and  the  hazard  to  the  execu- 
tive in  a  trial  of  strength  with  that  body,  afford  a  satisfactory  se- 
curity, that  the  negative  would  generally  be  employed  with  great 
caution;  and  that  in  its  exercise,  there  would  oftener  be  room  for 
a  charge  of  timidity  than  of  rashness.  A  king  of  Great  Britain, 
with  all  his  train  of  sovereign  attributes,  and  with  all  the  influence 
he  dra»'s  from  a  thousand  sources,  would,  at  this  day,  hesitate  to 
put  a  negative  upon  the  joint  resolutions  of  the  two  houses  of  par- 
liament. He  would  not  fail  to  exert  the  utmost  resources  of  that 
influence  to  strangle  a  measure  disagreeable  to  him,  in  its  progress 
to  the  throne,  to  avoid  being  reduced  to  the  dilemma  of  permitting 
it  to  taie  eflect,  or  of  risking  the  displeasure  of  the  nation,  by  an 
opposition  to  the  sense  of  the  legislative  body.  Nor  is  it  proba- 
ble, that  he  would  ultimately  venture  to  exert  his  prerogative,  but 
in  a  case  of  manifest  propriety,  or  extreme  necessity.  All  well- 
informed  men  in  that  kingdom  will  accede  to  the  justness  of  this 
remark.  A  very  considerable  period  has  elapsed  since  the  nega- 
tive of  the  crown  has  been  exercised. 

If  a  magistrate,  so  powerful,  and  so  well  fortified,  as  a  British 


THE  FEDERALIST.  367 

monarch,  would  have  scruples  about  the  exercise  of  the  power 
under  consideration,  how  much  greater  caution  may  be  reasonably 
expected  in  a  president  of  the  United  States,  clothed,  for  the  short 
period  of  four  years,  with  the  executive  authority  of  a  govern- 
Dient  wholly  and  purely  republican  ! 

It  is  evident,  that  there  would  be  greater  danger  of  his  not 
using  his  power  wlien  necessary,  than  of  his  using  it  too  often,  or 
too  much.  An  argument,  indeed,  against  its  expediency,  has  been 
drawn  from  this  very  source.  It  has  been  represented,  on  this 
account,  as  a  power  odious  in  appearance,  useless  in  practice. 
But  it  will  not  follow,  that  because  it  might  rarely,  it  would  never 
be  exercised.  In  the  case  for  which  it  is  chiefly  designed,  that  of 
an  immediate  attack  upon  the  constitutional  rights  of  the  execu- 
tive, or  in  a  case  in  which  the  public  good  was  evidently  and  pal- 
pably sacrificed,  a  man  of  tolerable  firmness  would  avail  himself 
of  his  constitutional  means  of  defence,  and  would  listen  to  the 
admonitions  of  duty  and  res[)onsil)ility.  In  the  former  supposi- 
tion, his  fortitude  would  be  stimulated  by  his  immediate  interest 
in  the  power  of  his  ofiice  ;  in  the  latter,  by  the  probability  of  the 
sanction  of  his  constituents;  who,  though  they  would  naturally 
incline  to  the  legislative  body  in  a  doubtful  case,  would  hardly  suf- 
fer their  j)artiality  to  delude  them  in  a  very  plain  one.  I  speak 
now  with  an  eye  to  a  magistrate  possessing  only  a  common  share 
of  firmness.  There  are  men  who,  under  any  circumstances,  will 
have  the  courage  to  do  their  duty  at  every  hazard. 

But  the  convention  have  pursued  a  mean  in  this  business,  which 
will  both  facilitate  the  exercise  of  the  power  vested  in  this  respect 
in  the  executive  magistrate,  and  make  its  eflScacy  to  depend  on 
the  sense  of  a  considerable  part  of  the  legislative  body.  Instead 
of  an  absolute,  it  is  proposed  to  give  the  executive  the  qualified 
negative,  already  described.  This  is  a  power  which  would  be 
much  more  readily  exercised  than  the  other.  A  man  who  might 
be  afraid  to  defeat  a  law  by  his  single  veto,  might  not  scruple  to 
return  it  for  reconsideration  ;  subject  to  being  finally  rejected,  only 
in  the  event  of  more  than  one  third  of  each  house  concurring  in 
the  suflSciency  of  his  objections.  He  would  be  encouraged  by  the 
reflection,  that  if  his  opposition  should  prevail,  it  would  embark 
in  it  a  very  respectable  portion  of  the  legislative  body,  whose  in- 
fluence would  be  united  with  his  in  supporting  the  propriety  of  his 
conduct  in  the  public  opinion.  A  direct  and  categorical  negative 
has  something  in  the  appearance  of  it  more  harsh,  and  more  apt 
to  irritate,  than  the  mere  suggestion  of  argumentative  objections 
to  be  approved  or  disapproved,  by  those  to  whom  they  are  address- 


368  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ed.  In  proportion  as  it  would  be  less  apt  to  offend,  it  would  be 
more  apt  to  be  exercised  ;  and  for  this  very  reason,  it  may  in  prac- 
tice be  found  more  effectual.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  it  will  not 
often  happen,  that  improper  views  will  govern  so  large  a  propor- 
tion as  two  thirds  of  both  branches  of  the  legislature  at  the  same 
time  ;  and  this  too  in  defiance  of  the  counterpoising  weight  of  the 
executive.  It  is  at  any  rate  far  less  probable,  that  this  should  be 
the  case,  than  that  such  views  should  taint  the  resolutions  and  con- 
duct of  a  bare  majority.  A  power  of  this  nature  in  the  executive, 
will  often  have  a  silent  and  unperceived,  though  forcible  operation. 
When  men,  engaged  in  unjustifiable  pursuits,  are  aware  that  ob- 
structions may  come  from  a  quarter  which  they  cannot  control, 
they  will  often  be  restrained,  by  the  bare  apprehension  of  opposi- 
tion, from  doing  what  they  would  with  eagerness  rush  into,  if  no 
such  external  impediments  were  to  be  feared. 

This  qualified  negative,  as  has  been  elsewhere  remarked,  is  in 
this  state  vested  in  the  council,  consisting  of  the  governour,  with 
the  chancellor  and  judges  of  the  supreme  court,  or  any  two  of 
them.  It  has  been  freely  employed  upon  a  variety  of  occasions, 
and  frequently  with  success.  And  its  utility  has  become  so  appar- 
ent, the  persons  who,  in  compiling  the  constitution,  were  its  violent 
opposers,  have  from  experience  become  its  declared  admirers.* 

I  have  in  another  place  remarked,  that  the  convention,  in  the 
formation  of  this  part  of  their  plan,  had  departed  from  the  model 
of  the  constitution  of  this  state,  in  favour  of  that  of  Massachu- 
setts. Two  strung  reasons  may  be  imagined  for  this  preference  : 
one,  that  the  judges,  who  are  to  be  the  interpreters  of  the  law, 
mijrht  receive  an  improper  bias,  from  having  given  a  previous 
opinion  in  their  revisionary  capacity  ;  the  other,  that  by  being 
often  associated  with  the  executive,  they  might  be  induced  to  em- 
bark too  far  in  the  political  views  of  that  magistrate,  and  thus  a 
dangerous  combination  might  by  degrees  be  cemented  between 
the  exectitive  and  judiciary  departments.  It  is  impossible  to  keep 
the  judges  too  distinct  from  every  other  avocation  than  that  of  ex- 
pounding the  laws.  It  is  peculiarly  dangerous  to  place  them  in  a 
situation  to  be  either  corrupted  or  influenced  by  the  executive. 

PUBLIUS. 

*  Mr.  Abraham  Yates,  a  warm  opponent  of  the  plan  of  the  convention,  is  of  this  num- 
ber. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  369 

NO.  LXXIV. 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  same  View  Continued,  in  relation  to  the  Command  of  the  Na- 
tioncd  Forces,  and  the  Potver  of  Pardoning. 
Thf,  president  of  the  United  States  is  to  be  commander  "  in 
"  chief  of  the  army  and  navy  of  the  United  States,  and  of  the 
"  militia  of  tlie  several  states  when  called  into  the  actual  service  of 
"  the  United  States."  The  propriety  of  this  provision  is  so  evi- 
dent, and  it  is,  at  the  same  time,  so  consonant  to  the  precedents  of 
the  state  constitutions  in  general,  that  little  need  be  said  to  explain 
or  enforce  it.  Even  those  of  them  which  have,  in  other  respects, 
coupled  the  chief  magistrate  \\ith  a  council,  have  for  tlie  most  |)art 
concentrated  the  military  authority  in  him  alone.  Of  all  the  cares 
or  concerns  of  government,  the  direction  of  war  most  peculiarly 
demands  those  qualities  which  distinguish  the  exercise  of  power 
by  a  single  hand.  The  direction  of  war,  implies  the  direction  of 
the  common  strength  :  and  the  power  of  directing  and  employing 
the  common  strength,  forms  an  usual  and  essential  part  in  the 
definition  of  the  executive  authority. 

"  The  president   may    require    the   opinion,    in   writing,    of  the 
"principal  officer  in  each  of  the  executive  departments,  upon  any. 
"subject  relating  to  the  duties  of  their  respective  offices."     This  I 
consider  as  a  mere  redundancy  in  the  plan  ;  as  the  right  for  which 
it  provides  would  result  of  itself  from  the  office. 

He  is  also  authorized  "  to  grant  reprieves  and  pardons  for  of- 
"  fences  against  the  United  States,  crrept  in  cases  of  impcach- 
*^  ment.'"  Humanity  and  good  policy  conspire  to  dictate,  that  the 
benign  prerogative  of  pardoning  should  be  as  little  as  possible 
fettered  or  embarrassed.  The  criminal  code  of  every  country 
partakes  so  much  of  necessary  severity,  that  without  an  easy  ac- 
cess to  exceptions  in  favour  of  unfortunate  guilt,  justice  would 
wear  a  countenance  too  sanguinary  and  cruel.  As  the  sense  of 
responsibility  is  always  strongest,  in  proportion  as  it  is  undivided, 
it  may  be  inferred,  that  a  single  man  would  be  most  ready  to  at- 
tend to  the  force  of  those  motives  which  might  j)lead  for  a  miti- 
gation of  the  rigour  of  the  law,  and  least  apt  to  yield  to  consider- 
ations, which  were  calculated  to  shelter  a  fit  object  of  its  ven- 
geance. The  reflection  that  the  fate  of  a  fellow-creature  depend- 
ed on  his  sole  fat,  would  naturally  inspire  scrupulousness  and  cau- 
tion :  the  dread  of  being  accused  of  weakness  or  connivance  would 
beget  equal  circumsi)eclion,  though  of  a  different  kind.  On  the 
other  hand,  as  men  generally  derive  confidence  from  their  number, 
45 


370  THE  FEDERALIST. 

they  might  often  encourage  each  other,  in  an  act  of  ohduracy, 
and  might  be  less  sensible  to  tlie  appreliension  of  censure  for  an 
injudicious  or  affected  clemency.  On  these  accounts,  one  man 
aj)|)ears  to  be  a  more  eligible  dispenser  of  the  mercy  of  govern- 
ment, than  a  body  of  men. 

The  expediency  of  vesting  the  power  of  pardoning  in  the  pres- 
ident has,  if  I  mistake  not,  been  only  contested  ii*  relation  to  the 
crime  of  treason.  This,  it  has  been  urged,  ought  to  have  depended 
upon  the  assent  of  one,  or  both  of  the  branches  of  the  legislative 
body.  I  shall  not  deny  that  there  are  strong  reasons  to  be  assign- 
ed for  requiring  in  this  particular  the  concurrence  of  that  l)ody, 
or  of  a  part  of  it.  As  treason  is  a  crime  levelled  at  the  immedi- 
ate being  of  the  society,  when  the  laws  have  once  ascertained  the 
guilt  of  the  offender,  there  seems  a  fitness  in  refening  the  expe- 
diency of  an  act  of  mercy  towards  him  to  the  judgment  of  the 
legislature.  And  this  ought  the  rather  t(^  be  the  case,  as  the  supposi- 
tion of  the  connivance  of  the  cliief  magistrate  ought  not  to  be  en- 
tirely excluded.  But  there  are  also  strong  objections  to  such  a  plan. 
It  is  not  to  be  doubted,  that  a  single  man  of  j)iudence  and  good 
sense  is  better  fitted,  in  delicate  conjunctures,  to  balance  the  mo- 
tives which  may  plead  for  and  against  the  remission  of  the  pun- 
ishment, than  any  numerous  body  whatever.  It  deserves  particular 
attention,  that  treason  will  often  be  connected  with  seditions,  which 
embrace  a  large  proportion  of  the  community  ;  as  lately  haj)pen- 
ed  in  Massachusetts.  In  every  such  case,  we  might  expect  to  see 
the  representation  of  the  people  tainted  with  the  same  spirit  which 
had  given  birth  to  the  offence.  And  when  parties  were  pretty 
equally  poized,  the  secret  sympathy  of  the  friends  and  favourers 
of  the  condemned,  availing  itself  of  the  good  nature  and  weak- 
ness of  others,  might  frequently  bestow  impunity  where  the  terrour 
of  an  example  was  necessary.  On  the  other  hand,  m  hen  the  se- 
dition had  proceeded  from  causes  which  had  inflamed  the  resent- 
ments of  the  major  party,  they  might  often  be  found  obstinate  and 
inexorable,  when  policy  demanded  a  conduct  of  forbearance  and 
clemency.  But  tlie  principal  argument  for  I'eposing  the  power  of 
pardoning  in  this  case  in  the  chief  magistrate,  is  this  :  in  seasons 
of  insurrection  or  rebellion,  there  are  often  critical  moments, 
when  a  well-timed  ofler  of  pardon  to  the  insurgents  or  rebels  may 
restore  the  tranquillity  of  the  commonwealth  ;  and  which,  if  suf- 
fered to  pass  unimproved,  it  may  never  be  possible  afterwards  to 
recall.  The  dilatory  process  of  convening  the  legislatui-e,  or  one 
of  its  branches,  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  its  sanction,  would  fre- 
quently be  the  occasion  of  letting  slip  the  golden  opportunity.    The 


THE  FEDERALFST.  371 

loss  of  a  week,  a  day,  an  hour,  may  sometimes  be  fatal.  If  it  should 
be  observed,  that  a  discretionary  power,  with  a  view  to  such  con- 
tingencies, might  be  occasionally  conferred  upon  the  president; 
it  may  be  answered  in  the  first  place,  that  it  is  questionable,  wheth- 
er, in  a  limited  constitution,  that  power  could  be  delegated  by 
law  :  and,  in  the  second  place,  that  it  would  generally  be  impoli- 
tic beforehand  to  take  any  step  which  might  hold  out  the  prospect 
of  impunity.  A  proceeding  of  this  kind,  out  of  the  usual  course, 
would  be  likely  to  be  construed  into  an  argument  of  timidity  or  of 
weakness,  and  would  have  a  tendency  to  embolden  guilt. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXXV.  I 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

2'Ae   same    View   Continued,   in   relation  to  the  Power  of  making 

Treaties. 

The  president  is  to  have  power,  "by  and  with  the  advice  and 
"consent  of  the  senate,  to  make  treaties,  provided  two  thirds  of 
*' the  senators  present  concur." 

Though  this  provision  has  been  assailed  on  different  grounds, 
with  no  small  degree  of  vehemence,  I  scruple  not  to  declare  my 
firm  persuasion,  that  it  is  one  of  the  best  digested  and  most  unex- 
ceptionable parts  of  the  plan.  One  ground  of  objection  is  the 
trite  topic  of  the  intermixture  of  powers;  some  contending,  that 
the  president  ought  alone  to  possess  the  prerogative  of  making 
treaties ;  others  that  it  ought  to  have  been  exclusively  deposited  in 
the  senate.  Another  source  of  objection,  is  derived  from  the 
small  number  of  persons  by  whom  a  treaty  may  be  made.  Of 
those  who  espouse  this  objection,  a  part  are  of  opinion,  that  the 
housfi  of  representatives  ought  to  have  been  associated  in  the  busi- 
ness, »vhile  another  part  seem  to  think  that  nothing  more  was  neces- 
sary than  to  have  substituted  two  thirds  of  all  the  members  of 
the  senate,  to  two  thirds  of  the  memhers  present.  As  I  flatter  my- 
self the  observations  made  in  a  preceding  number,  upon  this  part 
of  the  plan,  must  have  sufficed  to  place  it,  to  a  discerning  eye,  in 
a  very  favourable  light,  I  shall  here  content  myself  with  offering 
only  some  supplementary  remarks,  principally  with  a  view  to  the 
objections  which  have  been  just  stated. 

With  regard  to  the  intermixture  of  powers,  I  shall  rely  upon 
the  explanations  heretofore  given,  of  the  true  sense  of  the  rule 


372  THE  FEDERALIST. 

upon  which  that  ohjection  is  founded;  and  shall  take  it  for  grant- 
ed, as  an  inference  from  ihem,  that  t!ie  union  of  the  executive 
with  tiie  senate,  in  the  article  of  treaties,  is  no  infrinjrement  of 
that  rule.  I  Acnlure  to  add,  tiiat  the  particuhir  nature  of  the  pow- 
er of  making  treaties,  indicates  a  peculiar  propriety  in  that  union. 
Though  several  writers  on  the  suhject  of  government  place  that 
power  in  the  class  of  executive  autliorities,  yet  this  is  evidently  an 
arbitrary  disjiosition  :  for  if  we  attend  carefidly  to  its  operation, 
it  will  be  found  to  partake  more  of  the  legislative  than  of  the  ex- 
ecutive character,  though  it  does  not  seem  strictly  to  fall  within 
the  definition  of  either.  The  essence  of  the  legislative  authority 
is  to  enact  laws,  or,  in  other  words,  to  prescribe  rules  for  the  reg- 
ulation of  the  society  :  while  the  execution  of  the  laws,  and  tlie 
eni])loyment  of  the  common  strength,  eiiln  r  for  this  purpose,  or 
for  the  common  defence,  seem  to  cf)mprise  all  the  functions  of  the 
executive  magistrate.  The  power  of  making  treaties  is,  plainly, 
neither  the  one  nor  the  other.  It  relates  neither  to  the  execution 
of  the  subsisting  laws,  tior  to  the  enaction  of  new  ones;  and  still 
less  to  an  exerti&lt;in  of  the  common  strength.  Its  objects  are  con- 
tracts with  foreign  nations,  which  have  the  force  of  law,  but  de- 
rive it  from  the  obligations  of  good  faith.  They  are  not  rules  pre- 
scribed by  the  sovereign  to  the  subject,  but  agreements  between 
sovereign  and  sovereign.  The  power  in  question  seems  therefore 
to  form  a  distinct  department,  and  to  belong,  properly,  neitiier  to 
the  legislative  nor  to  the  executive.  The  qindities  elsewheie  de- 
tailed, as  indisi)ensable  in  the  management  of  foreign  negotiations, 
point  out  the  executive  as  the  most  fit  agent  in  those  transactions  ; 
while  the  va»t  importance  of  the  trust,  and  the  operation  of  trea- 
ties as  laws,  plead  strongly  for  the  participation  of  the  whole,  or 
a  portion,  of  the  legislative  body  in  the  office  of  making  them. 

However  proper  or  safe  it  may  be  in  governments,  where  the 
executive  magistrate  is  an  hereditary  monarch,  to  commit  to  him 
the  entire  power  of  making  treaties,  it  would  be  utterly  unsafe  and 
impr()|)er  to  entrust  that  power  to  an  elective  magistrate  of  four 
years  duration.  It  has  been  remarked,  upon  another  occasion, 
and  the  remark  is  unquestionably  just,  that  an  hereditary  monarch, 
though  often  the  oppressor  of  his  people,  has  personally  too  much 
at  stake  in  the  government,  to  be  in  any  material  danger  of  being 
corrupted  by  foreign  powers  :  but  that  a  man  raised  from  the  sta- 
tion of  a  private  citizen  to  the  rank  of  chief  magistrate,  possessed 
of  but  a  moderate  or  slender  fortune,  and  looking  forward  to  n 
period  not  very  remote,  when  he  may  probably  be  obliged  to  return 
to  the  station  from  which  he  was  taken,  mii-ht  sometimes  be  under 


THE  FEDERALIST.  373 

temptations  to  sacrifice  duty  to  interest,  wliicli  it  would  require 
superlative  virtue  to  witli.stand.  An  avaricious  man  nii^lit  be 
tempted  to  betray  the  interests  of  the  stale  for  the  acquisition  of 
wealth.  An  ambitious  man  might  make  his  own  a&lt;rg"randizement, 
by  the  aid  of  a  foreign  power,  tlie  price  of  his  treacliery  to  his 
constituents.  The  history  of  human  conduct  does  not  warrant 
that  exalted  opinion  of  human  virtue,  which  would  make  it  wise 
in  a  nation  to  commit  interests  of  so  delicate  and  momentous  a 
kind,  as  those  which  concern  its  intercourse  with  the  rest  of  the 
world,  to  the  sole  disposal  of  a  magistrate  created  and  circum- 
stanced as  would  be  a  president  of  the  United  States. 

To  have  entrusted  the  power  of  making  treaties  to  the  senate 
alone,  would  have  been  to  relinfiuish  the  benefits  of  the  constitu- 
tional agency  of  the  president  in  the  conduct  of  foreign  negotia- 
tions. It  is  true,  that  the  senate  would,  in  that  case,  have  the  op- 
tion of  em])loying  him  in  this  capacity;  but  tliey  would  also  have 
the  option  of  letting  it  alone  ;  and  pique  or  cabal  might  induce 
the  latter  rather  than  the  former.  Besides  this,  the  ministerial 
servant  of  the  senate,  could  not  be  expected  to  enjoy  the  confi- 
dence and  respect  of  foreign  powers  in  the  same  extent  with  the 
constitutional  representative  of  the  nation  ;  and,  of  course,  would 
not  be  able  to  act  with  an  equal  degree  of  weight  or  efficacy. 
While  the  union  would,  from  this  cause,  lose  a  considerable  ad- 
vantage in  the  management  of  its  external  concerns,  the  people 
would  lose  the  additional  security  which  would  result  from  the 
cooperation  of  the  executive.  Though  it  would  be  imprudent  to 
confide  in  him  solely  so  important  a  trust ;  yet  it  cannot  be  doubt- 
ed, that  his  pai'ticipation  would  materially  add  to  the  safety  of  the 
society.  It  must  indeed  be  clear,  to  a  demonstration,  that  the 
joint  possession  of  the  power  in  question,  by  the  president  and 
senate,  would  afford  a  greater  prospect  of  security,  than  the  sepa- 
rate possession  of  it  by  either  of  them.  And  whoever  has  mature- 
ly weighed  tlie  circumstances  which  must  concur  in  the  appoint- 
ment of  a  president,  will  be  satisfied,  that  the  office  will  always 
bid  fair  to  be  filled  by  men  of  such  characters,  as  to  render  their 
concurrence,  in  the  formation  of  treaties,  peculiarly  desirable,  as 
well  on  the  score  of  wisdom,  as  on  that  of  integrity. 

The  remarks  made  in  a  former  number,  will  apply  with  conclu- 
sive force  against  the  admission  of  the  house  of  rej.resentatives  lo 
a  shore  in  the  formation  of  treaties.  The  fluctuating,  and,  taking 
its  future  increase  into  the  account,  the  multitudinous  composition 
of  that  body,  forbid  us  to  expect  in  it  those  qualities  which  are 
essential  to  the  proper  execution  of  such  a  trust.     Accurate  and 


374  THE  FEDERALIST. 

compreliensive  knowledge  of  foreign  politics;  a  steady  and  sys- 
tematic adherence  to  the  same  views  ;  a  nice  and  uniform  sensi- 
bility to  national  character ;  decision,  secrecy.^  and  despatch  ;  are 
incompatible  with  the  genius  of  a  body  so  variable  and  so  numer- 
ous. The  very  complication  of  the  business,  by  introducing  a 
necessity  of  the  concurrence  of  so  many  different  bodies,  would 
of  itself  afford  a  solid  objection.  The  greater  frequency  of  the 
calls  upon  the  house  of  representatives,  and  the  greater  length  of 
time  which  it  would  often  be  necessary  to  keep  them  together 
when  convened,  to  obtain  their  sanction  in  the  progressive  stages 
of  a  treaty,  would  be  a  source  of  so  great  inconvenience  and  ex- 
pense, as  alone  ought  to  condemn  the  project. 

The  only  objection  which  remains  to  be  canvassed,  is  that  which 
■would  substitute  the  proportion  of  two  thirds  of  all  the  members 
composing  the  senatorial  body,  to  that  of  two  thirds  of  the  mem- 
bers present.  It  has  been  shown,  under  the  second  head  of  our 
inquiries,  that  all  provisions  which  require  more  than  the  majority 
of  any  body  to  its  resolutions,  have  a  direct  tendency  to  embarrass 
the  operations  of  the  government,  and  an  indirect  one  to  subject 
the  sense  of  the  majority  to  that  of  the  minority.  This  consider- 
ation seems  sufficient  to  determine  our  opinion,  that  the  conven- 
tion have  gone  as  far  in  the  endeavour  to  secure  the  advantage  of 
numbers  in  the  formation  of  treaties,  as  could  have  been  recon- 
ciled either  with  the  activity  of  the  public  councils  or  with  a  reas- 
onable regard  to  the  major  sense  of  the  community.  If  two 
thirds  of  the  whole  number  of  members  had  been  required,  it 
would,  in  many  cases,  from  the  non-attendance  of  a  part,  amount 
in  practice  to  a  necessity  of  unanimity.  And  the  history  of  every 
political  establishment  in  which  this  principle  has  prevailed,  is  a 
history  of  impotence,  perplexity,  and  disorder.  Proofs  of  this  po- 
sition might  be  adduced  from  the  examples  of  the  Roman  tribune- 
ship,  the  Polish  diet,  and  the  states-general  of  the  Netherlands  ; 
did  not  an  example  at  home  render  foreign  precedents  unneces- 
sary. 

To  require  a  fixed  proportion  of  the  whole  body,  would  not  in 
all  probability,  contribute  to  the  advantages  of  a  numerous  agency, 
better  than  merely  to  require  a  proportion  of  the  attending  mem- 
bers. The  former,  by  increasing  the  difficulty  of  resolutions  dis- 
agreeable to  the  minority,  diminishes  the  motives  to  punctual  at- 
tendance. The  latter,  by  making  the  capacity  of  the  body  to  de- 
pend on  a  proportion  which  may  be  varied  by  the  absence  or  pres- 
ence of  a  single  member,  has  the  contrary  effect.  And  as  by 
promoting  punctuality,  it  tends  to  keep  the  body  complete,  there 


THE  FEDERALIST.  875 

is  great  likelihood,  that  its  resolutions  would  generally  be  dictated 
by  as  great  a  number  in  this  case,  as  in  the  other;  M-hile  there 
would  be  much  fewer  occasions  of  delay.  It  ought  not  to  be  for- 
gt:tten,  that  under  tJie  existing  confederation,  two  members  may, 
and  usually  do  represent  the  state ;  whence  it  happens  that  con- 
gress, who  now  are  solely  invested  with  all  the  powers  of  the  union, 
rarely  consists  of  a  greater  number  of  persons  than  would  com- 
poi&gt;e  the  intended  senate.  If  we  add  to  this,  that  as  the  members 
vote  by  states,  and  that  where  there  is  only  a  single  member  pres- 
ent from  a  state,  his  vote  is  lost;  it  will  justify  a  supposition  that 
the  active  voices  in  the  senate,  where  the  members  are  to  vote  in- 
dividually, would  rarely  fall  short  in  number  of  the  actual  voices 
in  the  existing  congress.  When,  in  addition  to  these  considera- 
tions, we  take  into  view  the  cooperation  of  the  president,  we  shall 
not  hesitate  to  infer,  that  the  people  of  America  would  have  great- 
er security  against  an  improper  use  of  the  power  of  makinw  trea- 
ties, under  tlie  new  constitution,  than  they  now  enjoy  under  the 
confederation.  And  when  we  proceed  still  one  step  further,  and 
look  forward  to  the  probable  augmentation  of  the  senate,  by  the 
erection  of  new  states,  we  shall  not  only  perceive  ample  ground 
for  confidence  in  the  sufficiency  of  the  numbers,  to  whose  agency 
that  power  will  be  entrusted  ;  but  we  shall  probably  be  led  to  con- 
clude, that  a  body  more  numerous  than  the  senate  is  likely  to  be- 
come, would  be  very  little  fit  for  the  proper  discharge  of  the  trust. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXXVI. 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

7%c  same  View  Continaed,  in  relation  to  the  Appointment  of  the  Of- 
ficers of  the  Government. 

The  president  is  "  to  nominate,  and,  by  and  with  the  advice  and 
*'  consent  of  the  senate,  to  appoint  ambassadors,  other  public  min- 
"  isters  and  consuls,  judjres  of  the  supreme  court,  and  all  other 
"  officers  of  the  United  States,  whose  appointmerits  are  not  other- 
■"  wise  provided  for  in  the  constitution.  But  the  congress  may  by 
*^'  law  vest  the  appointment  of  such  inferiour  officers  as  they  think 
"  proper,  in  the  president  alone,  or  in  the  courts  of  law,  or  in  the 
"  heads  of  departments.  The  president  shall  have  power  to  fill 
*'  up  all  vacancies  which  may  happen  during  the  recess  of  the  senate, 
"  by  granting  commissions  which  shall  expire  at  the  end  of  their 
"  next  session." 


376  THE  FEDERALIST. 

It  has  been  observed  in  a  former  paper,  that  "the  true  test  of  a 
"  good  government,  is  its  aptitude  and  tendency  to  produce  a 
"  o-ood  administration."  If  tlie  justness  of  this  observation  be  ad- 
mitted, the  mode  of  appointing  the  officers  of  the  United  States 
contained  in  the  foregoing  clauses,  must  when  examined,  be  al- 
lowed to  be  entitled  to  particular  commendation.  It  is  not  easy, 
to  conceive  a  plan  better  calculated  to  promote  a  judicious  choice 
of  men  for  filling  the  offices  of  the  union  ;  and  it  will  not  need 
proof,  that  on  this  point  must  essentially  depend  the  character  of 
its  administration. 

It  will  be  agreed  on  all  hands,  that  the  power  of  appointment, 
in  ordinary  cases,  can  be  properly  modified  only  in  one  of  three 
ways.  It  ought  either  to  be  vested  in  a  single  man ;  or  in  a  select 
assembly  of  a  moderate  number  ;  or  in  a  single  man,  with  the 
concurrence  of  such  an  assembly.  The  exercise  of  it  by  the  peo- 
ple at  large,  will  be  readily  admitted  to  be  impracticable ;  since 
waving  every  other  consideration,  it  would  leave  them  little  time 
to  do  any  thing  else.  When,  therefore,  mention  is  made  in  the 
subsequent  reasonings,  of  an  assembly,  or  body  of  men,  what  is 
said  must  be  understood  to  relate  to  a  select  body  or  assembly, 
of  the  description  already  given.  The  people  collectively,  from 
their  nimiber  and  from  their  dispersed  situation,  cannot  be  regulat- 
ed in  their  movements  by  that  systematic  spirit  of  cabal  and  in- 
tri&lt;^ue,  which  will  be  urged  as  the  chief  objections  to  reposing  the 
power  in  question  in  a  body  of  men. 

Those  who  have  themselves  reflected  upon  the  subject,  or  who 
have  attended  to  the  observations  made  in  other  parts  of  these  pa- 
pers, in  relation  to  the  appointment  of  the  president,  will,  I  pre- 
sume, agree  to  the  position,  that  there  would  always  be  great 
probability  of  having  the  place  supplied  by  a  man  of  abilities,  at 
least  respectable.  Premising  this,  I  proceed  to  lay  it  down  as  a 
rule,  that  one  man  of  discernment  is  better  fitted  to  analyze  and 
estimate  the  peculiar  qualities  adapted  to  particular  offices,  than  a 
body  of  men  of  equal,  or  perhaps  even  of  supe.riour  discernment. 
The  sole  and  undivided  responsibility  of  one  man,  will  natural- 
ly beget  a  livelier  sense  of  duty,  and  a  more  exact  regard  to  rep- 
utation. He  will,  on  this  account,  feel  himself  under  stronger  ob- 
ligations, and  more  interested  to  investigate  with  care  the  quali- 
ties requisite  to  the  stations  to  be  filled,  and  to  prefer  with  impar- 
tiality the  person  who  may  have  the  fairest  pretensions  to  them. 
He  will  \\n\e.  fewer  personal  attachments  to  gratify,  than  a  body  of 
men  who  may  each  be  supposed  to  have  an  equal  number;  and 
will  be  so  much  the  less  liable  to  be  misled  by  the  sentiments  of 


THE  FEDERALIST.  377 

friendship  and  of  affection.  There  is  nothing  so  apt  to  agitate 
the  passions  of  mankind  as  personal  considerations,  whether  they 
relate  to  ourselves  or  to  others,  who  are  to  be  the  objects  of  our 
choice  or  preference.  Hence,  in  every  exercise  of  the  power  of 
appointing  to  offices  by  an  assembly  of  men,  we  must  expect 
to  see  a  full  display  of  all  the  private  and  party  likings  and  dis- 
likes, partialities  and  antipathies,  attachments  and  animosities, 
which  are  felt  by  those  who  compose  the  assembly.  The  choice 
which  may  at  any  time  hap|ien  to  be  made  under  such  circum- 
stances, will  of  course  be  the  result  either  of  a  victory  gained  by 
one  party  over  the  other,  or  of  a  compromise  between  the  parties. 
In  either  case,  the  intrinsic  merit  of  the  candidate  will  be  too  often 
out  of  sight.  In  the  first,  the  qualifications  best  adapted  to  unit- 
ing the  suffrages  of  the  party,  will  be  more  considered  than  those 
iwhich  fit  the  person  for  the  station.  In  the  last,  the  coalition  will 
.commonly  turn  upon  some  interested  equivalent :  "  Give  us  the 
*'  man  we  wish  for  this  office,  and  you  shall  have  the  one  you  wish 
"  for  that."  This  will  be  the  usual  condition  of  the  bargain. 
And  it  will  rarely  happen  that  the  advancement  of  the  public  ser- 
vice will  be  the  primary  object  either  of  party  victories,  or  of  par- 
ty negotiations. 

The  truth  of  the  principles  here  advanced,  seems  to  have  been 
felt  by  the  most  intelligent  of  those  who  have  found  fault  with  the 
provision  made,  in  this  respect,  by  the  convention.  They  contend, 
that  the  president  ought  solely  to  have  been  authorized  to  make 
the  appointments  under  the  federal  government.  But  it  is  easy  to 
show,  that  every  advantage  to  be  expected  from  such  an  arrange- 
ment would,  in  substance,  be  derived  from  the  power  of  nomina- 
tion, which  is  proposed  to  be  conferred  upon  him  ;  while  several 
disadvantages  which  might  attend  the  absolute  power  of  appoint- 
ment in  the  hands  of  that  officer  would  be  avoided.  In  the  act  of 
nomination,  his  judgment  alone  would  he  exercised  ;  and  as  it 
would  be  his  sole  duty  to  point  out  the  man,  who  with  the  appro- 
bation of  the  senate  should  fill  an  office,  his  responsibility  would 
be  as  complete  as  if  he  were  to  make  the  final  appointment. 
There  can,  in  this  view,  be  no  difference  between  nominating  and 
appointing.  The  same  motives  which  would  influence  a  proper 
discharge  of  his  duty  in  one  case,  would  exist  in  the  other.  And 
as  no  man  could  be  appointed  but  on  his  previous  nomination, 
every  man  who  might  be  appointed  would  be,  in  fact,  his  choice. 

But  his  nomination  may  be   overruled:  this  it   certainly  may; 
yet  it  can  only  be  to  make  place  for  another  nomination    by   him- 
self.    The  person  ultimately  appointed  must  be  the  object  of  his 
46 


378  THE  FEDERALIST. 

preference,  though  perhaps  not  in  the  first  degree.  It  is  also  not 
probable,  that  his  nomination  would  often  be  overruled.  The  sen- 
ate could  not'  be  tempted,  by  the  preference  they  might  feel  to 
another,  to  reject  the  one  proposed  ;  because  they  could  not  assure 
themselves,  that  the  person  they  might  wish  would  be  brought  for- 
ward by  a  second  or  by  any  subsequent  nomination.  They  could 
not  even  be  certain,  that  a  future  nomination  would  present  a  can- 
didate in  any  degree  more  acceptable  to  them  :  and  as  their  dis- 
sent might  cast  a  kind  of  stigma  upon  the  individual  rejected,  and 
might  have  the  appearance  of  a  reflection  upon  the  judgment  of 
the  chief  magistrate ;  it  is  not  likely  that  their  sanction  would  of- 
ten be  refused,  where  there  were  not  special  and  strong  reasons 
for  the  refusal. 

To  what  purpose  then  require  the  cooperation  of  the  senate? 
I  answer,  that  the  necessity  of  their  concurrence  would  have  a 
powerful,  though,  in  general,  a  silent  operation.  It  would  be  an 
excellent  check  upon  a  spirit  of  favouritism  in  the  j)resident,  and 
would  tend  greatly  to  prevent  the  appointment  of  unfit  characters 
from  state  prejudice,  from  family  connexion,  from  personal  attach- 
ment, or  from  a  view  to  popularity.  In  addition  to  this,  it  would 
be   an  eflScacious  source  of  stability  in  the  administration. 

It  will  readily  be  comprehended,  that  a  man  who  had  himself 
the  sole  disposition  of  offices,  would  be  governed  much  more  by 
his  private  inclinations  and  interests,  than  when  he  was  bound  to 
submit  the  propriety  of  his  choice  to  the  discussion  and  determi- 
nation of  a  different  and  independent  body  ;  and  that  body  an 
entire  branch  of  the  legislature.  The  possibility  of  rejection 
would  be  a  strong  motive  to  care  in  proposing.  The  danger  to 
his  own  reputation,  and,  in  the  case  of  an  elective  magistrate,  to 
his  political  existence,  from  betrfiying  a  spirit  of  favouritism,  or 
an  unbecon)ing  pursuit  of  popularity,  to  the  observation  of  a  body 
whose  opinion  would  have  great  weight  in  forming  that  of  the 
public,  could  not  fail  to  operate  as  a  barrier  to  the  one  and  to  the 
other.  He  would  be  both  ashamed  and  afraid  to  bring  forward, 
for  the  most  distinguished  or  lucrative  stations,  candidates  who  had 
no  other  merit  than  that  of  coming  from  the  same  state  to  which  he 
particularly  belonged,  or  of  being  in  some  way  or  other  personal- 
ly allied  to  him,  or  of  possessing  the  necessary  insignificance  and 
pliancy  to  render  them  the  obsequious  instruments  of  his  pleasure. 

To  this  reasoning  it  has  been  objected,  that  the  president,  by 
the  influence  of  the  power  of  nomination,  may  secure  the  com- 
plaisance of  the  senate  to  his  views.  The  supposition  of  imiver- 
sal  venality  in  human  nature,  is  little  less  an  errour  in  political 


THE  FEDERALIST.  379 

reasoning,  than  that  of  universal  rectitude.  The  institution  of 
delegated  power  implies,  that  there  is  a  portion  of  virtue  and  hon- 
our among  mankind,  wliich  may  be  a  reasonable  foundation  of 
confidence :  and  experience  justifies  the  theory.  It  has  been 
found  to  exist  in  the  most  corrupt  periods  of  the  most  corrupt  gov- 
ernments. The  venality  of  the  British  house  of  commons  has 
been  long  a  topic  of  accusation  against  that  body,  in  the  country 
to  which  they  belong,  as  well  as  in  this;  and  it  cannot  be  doubted 
that  the  charge  is,  to  a  considerable  extent,  well  founded.  But  it 
is  as  little  to  be  doubted,  that  there  is  always  a  large  proportion  of 
the  body,  which  consists  of  independent  and  public  spirited 
men,  who  have  an  influential  weight  in  the  councils  of  the  nation. 
Hence  it  is,  (the  present  reign  not  excepted,)  that  the  sense  of 
that  body  is  often  seen  to  control  the  inclinations  of  the  monarch, 
both  with  regard  to  men  and  to  measures.  Though  it  might 
therefore  be  allowable  to  suppose,  that  the  executive  might  occa- 
sionally influence  some  individuals  in  the  senate,  yet  the  supposi- 
tion, that  he  could  in  general  purchase  the  integrity  of  the  whole 
body,  would  be  forced  and  improbable.  A  man  disposed  to  view 
human  nature  as  it  is,  without  either  flattering  its  virtues,  or  exag- 
gerating its  vices,  will  see  sufficient  ground  of  confidence  in  the 
probity  of  the  senate,  to  rest  satisfied,  not  only  that  it  will  be  im- 
practicable to  the  executive  to  corrupt  or  seduce  a  majority  of  its 
members,  but  thiit  the  necessity  of  its  cooperation,  in  the  business 
of  appointments,  will  be  a  considerable  and  salutary  restraint  upon 
the  conduct  of  that  magistrate.  Nor  is  the  integrity  of  the  senate 
the  only  reliance.  The  constitution  has  provided  some  important 
guards  against  the  danger  of  executive  influence  upon  the  legisla- 
tive body :  it  declares,  "  that  no  senator  or  representative  shall, 
"  during  the  time  ybr  w7«'cA  he  was  eltcted,  be  appointed  to  any 
"  civil  office  under  the  United  States,  which  shall  have  been  cre- 
"  ated,  or  the  emoluments  whereof  shall  have  been  increased  dur- 
"  ing  such  time  ;  and  no  person,  holding  any  office  under  the  Unit- 
"  ed  States,  shall  be  a  member  of  either  bouse  during  his  contin- 
"  uance  in  office."  PUBLIUS. 


3S0  THE  FEDERALIST. 

NO.  LXXVII. 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

The  Vieio  of  the  constitution   of  the  President  Concluded,  with  a 
further  consideration  of  the   Power    of  Appointment,  and  a  con^ 

cise  Examination  of  his  remaining  Powers. 

It  has  been  mentioned  as  one  of  the  advantai^es  to  be  expected 
from  the  coc^peration  of  the  senate,  in  the  business  of  appoint- 
ments, thai:  it  would  conliibute  to  the  stability  of  the  admiiiistra- 
tion.  The  consent  of  tl.al  body  would  be  necessary  to  displace  as 
well  as  to  appoint.*  A  change  of  the  chief  magistrate,  tl)erefore, 
would  not  occasion  so  violent  or  so  jreneral  a  revolution  in  the  of- 
ficers of  the  government  as  might  be  expected,  if  be  were  the  sole 
disposer  of  offices.  Where  a  man,  in  any  station,  had  given  satis- 
factory evidence  of  his  fitness  for  it,  a  new  president  would  be  re- 
strained fiom  attempting  a  change  in  fiivour  of  a  person  more 
agreeable  to  him,  by  the  apprehension  that  a  discountenance  of 
the  senate  might  frustrate  tlie  attempt,  and  bring  some  degree  of 
discredit  upon  himself.  Those  who  can  best  estimate  the  value  of 
a  steady  administiatinn  will  be  most  disposed  to  prize  a  provision, 
which  connects  the  ol^icial  (xistence  of  j)ublic  men  with  the  ap- 
probation or  disapprobation  of  that  body,  vvliich,  from  the  greater 
jiermanency  of  its  own  composition,  will,  in  all  jirobabijity,  be 
less  subject  to  inconstancy  than  any  other  member  of  the  govern- 
ment. 

To  this  union  of  the  senate  witli  the  president,  in  the  article  of 
appointtnents,  it  has  in  some  cases  been  objected,  that  it  would 
serve  to  give  the  president  an  undue  influence  over  the  senate  ;  and 
in  others  that  it  would  have  an  opposite  tendency  ;  a  strong  proof 
that  neither  suggestion  is  true. 

To  state  the  first  in  its  proper  form,  is  to  refute  it.  It  amounts 
to  this.... the  president  would  have  an  improper  influence  over  the 
^fnate  ;  because  the  senate  would  have  the  power  of  restraining 
him.  This  is  an  absurdity  in  terms.  It  cannot  admit  of  a  doubt, 
that  the  entire  power  of  appointment  would  enable  him  much 
more  effectually  to  establish  a  dangerous  empire  over  that  body, 
than  a  mere  power  of  nomination  subject  to  their  control. 

Let  us  take  a  view  of  the  converse  of  the  proposition :  "  the 
*' senate  would  influence  tlic  executive."  As  I  have  had  occasion 
to  remarlv  in  several  other  instances,  the  indistinctness  of  the  ob- 
jection forbids  a  precise  answer.     In  what  manner  is  this  influence 

*T!iis  coiislrKclion  has  since  lieen  rejected  liy  l!ie  legislature;  and  it  is  now  settled  in 
praclice,  that  the  power  of  displacing  Ijelojigs  excliisivelj  lo  the  presicenl. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  381 

to  be  exerted  1  in  relation  to  what  objects  1  The  power  of  influ- 
encing a  person,  in  the  sense  in  which  it  is  here  used,  must  imply  a 
power  of  conferring  a  benefit  upon  him.  How  could  the  senate 
confer  a  benefit  upon  the  president  by  the  manner  of  employing 
their  rigiit  of  negative  upon  his  nominations  1  If  it  be  said  they 
might  sometimes  gratify  him  by  an  acquiescence  in  a  favourite 
choice,  when  pubhc  motives  might  dictate  a  different  conduct  ;  I 
answer,  that  the  instances  in  which  the  president  would  be  per- 
sonally interested  in  tiie  result,  would  be  too  few  to  admit  of  his 
being  materially  affected  by  the  compliances  of  the  senate.  Be- 
sides this,  it  is- evident,  that  the  power  which  can  originate  the 
disposition  of  honours  and  emoluments,  is  more  likely  to  attract 
than  to  be  attracted  by  the  power  which  can  merely  obstruct  their 
course.  If  by  influencing  the  president  be  meant  restraining  him, 
this  is  precisely  what  must  have  been  intended.  And  it  has  been 
shown  that  the  restraint  would  be  salutary,  at  the  same  time  that 
it  would  not  be  such  as  to  destroy  a  single  advantage  to  be  looked 
for  from  the  uncontroled  agency  of  that  magistrate.  The  ri"ht 
of  nomination  would  produce  all  the  good,  without  the  ill. 

Upon  a  comparison  of  the  plan  for  the  appointment  of  tlie  ofii- 
cers  of  tlie  proposed  government,  with  that  which  is  established 
by  the  constitution  of  this  state,  a  decided  preference  must  be 
given  to  the  former.  In  that  plan,  the  power  of  nomination  is 
unequivocally  vested  in  the  executive.  And  as  there  would  be  a 
necessity  for  submitting  each  nomination  to  the  judgment  of  an 
entire  branch  of  the  legislature,  the  circumstances  attending  an 
appointment,  from  the  mode  of  conducting  it,  would  naturally  be- 
come matters  of  notoriety  ;  and  the  public  could  be  at  no  loss  to 
determine,  what  part  had  been  performed  by  the  diftererit  actors. 
The  blame  of  a  bad  nomination  would  fall  upon  the  president 
singly  and  absolutely.  The  censure  of  rejecting  a  gooti  one  would 
lie  entirely  at  the  door  of  the  senate  ;  aggravated  by  the  consider- 
ation of  their  having  counteracted  the  good  intentions  of  the  ex- 
ecutive. If  an  ill  appointment  should  be  made,  the  executive  for 
nominating,  and  the  senate  for  approving,  would  participate, 
though  in  different  degrees,  in  the  opprobrium  and  disgrace. 

The  reverse  of  all  this  characterizes  the  manner  of  appoint- 
ment in  this  state.  The  council  of  appointment  consists  of  from 
three  to  five  persons,  of  whom  the  governour  is  always  one.  This 
small  body,  shut  up  in  a  private  apartment,  impenetrable  to  the 
public  eye,  proceed  to  the  execution  of  the  trust  committed  to 
them.  It  is  known,  that  the  governour  claims  the  right  of  nomina- 
tion, upon  the  strength  of  some  ambiguous  expressions  ia  the  con- 


382  THE  FEDERALIST. 

stitution  ;  but  it  is  not  known  to  what  extent,  or  in  what  manner 
he  exercises  it ;  nor  upon  vvliat  occasions  he  is  contradicted  or  op- 
posed. Tlie  censure  of  a  bad  appointment  on  account  of  the  un- 
certainty of  its  author,  and  for  want  of  a  determinate  object,  has 
neither  poignancy  nor  duration.  And  while  an  unbounded  field 
for  cabal  and  intrigue  lies  open,  all  idea  of  responsibility  is  lost. 
The  most  that  the  public  can  know,  is,  that  the  governour  claims 
the  right  of  nomination  ;  that  two,  out  of  the  considerable  number 
of  four  men,  can  often  be  managed  without  much  difficulty  ;  that 
if  some  of  the  members  of  a  particular  council  sliould  happen  to 
be  of  an  uncomplying  character,  it  is  frequently  not  impossible  to 
get  rid  of  their  opposition,  by  regulating  the  time  of  meeting  in 
such  a  manner  as  to  render  their  attendance  inconvenient ;  and 
that  from  whatever  cause  it  may  proceed,  a  great  number  of  very 
improper  appointments  are  from  time  to  time  made.  Whether  a 
governour  of  this  state  avails  himself  of  the  ascendant  he  must 
necessarily  have  in  this  delicate  and  important  part  of  the  admin- 
istration, to  prefer  to  offices  men  who  are  best  qualified  for  them ; 
or  whether  he  prostitutes  that  advantage  to  the  advancement  of 
persons,  whose  chief  merit  is  their  iniplicit  devotion  to  his  will, 
and  to  the  support  of  a  despicable  and  dangerous  system  of  per- 
sonal influence,  are  questions  which,  unfortunately  for  the  com- 
munity, can  only  be  the  subjects  of  speculation  and  conjecture. 

Every  mere  council  of  appointment,  however  constituted,  will 
be  a  conclave,  in  which  cabal  and  intrigue  will  have  their  full 
scope.  Their  number,  without  an  unwarrantable  increase  of  ex- 
pense, cannot  be  large  enough  to  preclude  a  facility  of  combina- 
tion. And  as  each  member  will  have  his  friends  and  connexions 
to  provide  for,  the  desire  of  mutual  gratification  will  beget  a  scan- 
dalous bartering  of  votes  and  bargaining  for  places.  The  private 
attachments  of  one  man  might  easily  be  satisfied;  but  to  satisfy 
the  private  attachments  of  a  dozen,  or  of  twenty  men,  would  oc- 
casion a  monopoly  of  all  the  principal  employments  of  the  gov- 
ernment, in  a  few  families,  and  would  lead  more  directly  to  an 
aristocracy  or  an  oligarchy,  than  any  measure  that  could  be  con- 
trived. If  to  avoid  an  accumulation  of  offices,  there  was  to  be  a 
frequent  change  in  the  persons  who  were  to  compose  the  council, 
this  would  involve  the  mischiefs  of  a  mutable  administration  in  their 
full  extent.  Such  a  council  would  also  be  more  liable  to  executive 
influence  than  the  senate,  because  they  would  be  fewer  in  number, 
and  would  act  less  immediately  under  the  public  inspection.  Such 
a  council,  in  fine,  as  a  substitute  for  the  plan  of  the  convention, 
would  be  productive  of  an  increase  of  expense,  a  multiplicatioa 


THE  FEDERALIST.  383 

of  the  evils  which  spring  from  favouritism  and  intrigue  in  the  dis- 
tribution of  public  honours,  a  decrease  of  stability  in  the  admin- 
istration of  the  government,  and  a  diminution  of  the  security 
against  an  undue  influence  of  the  executive.  And  yet  such  a  coun- 
cil has  been  warmly  cruitended  for  as  an  essential  amendment  in 
the  proposed  constitution. 

I  could  not  with  propriety  conclude  my  observations  on  the  sub- 
ject of  appointments,  without  taking  notice  of  a  scheme,  for 
which  there  has  appeared  some,  though  but  few  advocates  ;  I  mean 
that  of  uniting  the  house  of  representatives  in  the  power  of  mak- 
ing them.  I  shall,  however,  do  little  more  than  mention  it,  as  I 
cannot  imagine  that  it  is  likely  to  gain  the  countenance  of  any 
considerable  part  of  the  community.  A  body  so  fluctuating,  and 
at  the  same  time  so  numerous,  can  never  be  deemed  proper  for 
the  exercise  of  that  power.  Its  unfitness  will  appear  manifest  to 
all,  when  it  is  recollected  that  in  half  a  century  it  may  consist  of 
three  or  four  hundred  persons.  All  the  advantages  of  the  stabil- 
ity, both  of  the  executive  and  of  the  senate,  would  be  defeated  by 
this  union  ;  and  infinite  delays  and  embarrassments  would  be  occa- 
sioned. The  example  of  most  of  the  states  in  their  local  consti- 
tutions, encourages  us  to  reprobate  the  idea. 

The  only  remaining  powers  of  the  executive,  are  comprehend- 
ed in  giving  information  to  congress  of  the  state  of  the  union ;  in 
recommending  to  their  consideration  such  measures  as  he  shall 
judge  expedient ;  in  convening  them,  or  either  branch,  upon  ex- 
traordinary occasions ;  in  adjourning  them  when  they  cannot 
themselves  agree  upon  the  time  of  adjournment ;  in  receiving  am- 
bassadors and  other  public  ministers  ;  in  faithfully  executing  the 
laws  ;  and  in  commissioning  all  the  oflEicers  of  the  United  States. 

Except  some  cavils  about  the  power  of  convening  either  house 
of  the  legislature,  and  that  of  receiving  ambassadors,  no  objection 
has  been  made  to  this  class  of  authorities  ;  nor  could  they  possi- 
bly admit  of  any.  It  required  indeed  an  insatiable  avidity  for 
censure,  to  invent  exceptions  to  the  parts  which  have  been  assail- 
ed. In  regard  to  the  power  of  convening  either  house  of  the  leg- 
islature, I  shall  barely  remark,  that  in  respect  to  the  senate  at 
least,  we  can  readily  discover  a  good  reason  for  it.  As  this  body 
has  a  concurrent  power  with  the  executive  in  the  article  of  treaties, 
it  might  often  be  necessary  to  call  it  together  with  a  view  to  this 
object,  when  it  would  be  unnecessary  and  improper  to  convene  the 
house  of  representatives.  As  to  the  reception  of  ambassadors, 
what  1  have  said  in  a  former  paper  will  furnish  a  sufficient  answer. 

We  have  now  completed  a  survey  of  the  structure  and  powers 


S84  THE  FEDERALIST. 

of  the  executive  department,  which,  I  have  endeavoured  to  show, 
combines,  as  far  as  republican  principles  will  admit,  all  the  requi- 
sites to  energy.  The  remniiiins'  inquiry  is. ...Does  it  also  combine 
the  requisites  to  safety  in  the  rf  publican  sense. ...a  due  dependence 
on  the  people. ...a  due  responsibility  1  The  answer  to  this  question 
has  been  anticipated  in  the  investi^^ation  of  its  other  characteris- 
tics, and  is  satisfactorily  deducible  from  these  circumstances. ...the 
election  of  the  president  once  in  four  years  by  persons  immediate*- 
]y  chosen  by  the  people  for  that  purpose  ;  his  liability, at  all  times,, 
to  impeachment,  trial,  dismission  from  ofiice,  incapacity  to  serve 
in  any  other,  and  to  the  forfeiture  of  life  and  estate  by  subsequent 
prosecution  in  the  common  course  of  law.  But  these  precautions, 
great  as  they  are,  are  not  the  only  ones  which  the  plan  of  the  con- 
vention has  provided  in  favour  of  the  public  security.  In  the  only 
instances  in  which  the  abuse  of  the  executive  authority  was  mate- 
rially to  be  feared,  the  chief  magistrate  of  the  United  States 
would,  by  that  plan,  be  subjected  to  the  control  of  a  branch  of  the 
legislative  body.  What  more  can  an  enlightened  and  reasonable 
people  desire  1  PUBUUS^ 


NO.  LXXVIII. 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

A  View  of  the  Constitution  of  the  Judicial  Department  in  relation 
to  the  Tenure  of  Good  Behaviour. 

We  proceed  now  to  an  examination  of  the  judiciary  department 
of  the  proposed  government. 

In  unfolding  the  defects  of  the  existing  confederation,  the  utility 
and  necessity  of  a  federal  judicature  have  been  clearly  pointed 
out.  It  is  the  less  necessary  to  recapitulate  the  considerations 
there  urgeil,  as  the  propriety  of  the  institution  in  the  abstract  is 
not  disputed  ;  the  only  questions  which  have  been  raised  being 
relative  to  the  manner  of  constituting  it,  and  to  its  extent.  To 
these  points,  therefore,  our  observations  shall  be  confined. 

The  manner  of  constituting  it  seems  to  embrace  these  several 
objects  :  1st.  The  mode  of  appointing  the  judges  :  2d.  The  ten- 
ure by  which  they  are  to  hold  their  places  :  3d.  The  partition  of  the 
judiciary  authority  between  difterent  courts,  and  their  relations  to 
each  other. 

First.  As  to  the  mode  of  appointing  the  judges  :  this  is  the  same 
with  that  of  appointing  the  officers  of  the  union  in  general,  and 


THE  FEDERALIST.  385 

has  been  so  fully  discussed  in  the  two  last  numbers,  that  nothing 
can  be  said  here  which  would  not  be  useless  repetition. 

Second.  As  to  the  tenure  by  whicli  tlie  judjres  are  to  hold  their 
places  :  this  chiefly  concerns  their  duration  in  oftice  ;  the  provis- 
ion for  their  support;  the  precautions  for  their  responsibihty. 

According  to  the  phin  of  the  convention,  all  the  judges  who 
may  be  appointed  by  the  United  States  are  to  hold  their  offices 
during  good  behaviour  ;  which  is  conformable  to  the  most  approv- 
ed of  the  state  constitutions. ...among  the  rest,  to  that  of  this  state. 
Its  propriety  having  been  drawn  into  question  by  the  adversaries 
of  that  plan,  is  no  light  symptom  of  the  rage  for  objection,  which 
disorders  their  imaginations  and  judgments.  The  standard  of 
good  behaviour  for  the  continuance  in  office  of  the  judicial  mag- 
istracy, is  certainly  one  of  the  most  valuable  of  the  modern  im- 
provements in  the  practice  of  government.  In  a  monarchy,  it  is 
an  excellent  barrier  to  the  despotism  of  the  prince  :  in  a  repub- 
lic, it  is  a  no  less  excellent  barrier  to  the  encroachments  and  op- 
pressions of  the  representative  body.  And  it  is  the  best  expedi- 
ent which  can  be  devised  in  any  government,  to  secure  a  steady, 
upright,  and  impartial  administration  of  the  laws. 

Whoever  attentively  considers  the  different  departments  of  pow- 
er must  perceive,  that  in  a  government  in  which  they  are  separat- 
ed from  each  other,  the  judiciary,  from  the  nature  of  its  functions, 
will  always  be  the  least  dangerous  to  the  political  rights  of  the 
constitution  ;  because  it  will  be  least  in  a  capacity  to  annoy  or 
injure  them.  The  executive  not  only  dispenses  the  honours,  but 
holds  the  sword  of  the  community:  the  legislature  not  only  com- 
mands the  purse,  but  prescribes  the  rules  by  which  the  duties  and 
rights  of  every  citizen  are  to  be  regulated  :  the  judiciary,  on  the 
contrary,  has  no  influence  over  either  the  sword  or  the  purse  ;  no 
direction  either  of  the  strength  or  of  the  wealth  of  the  society  ; 
and  can  take  no  active  resolution  whatever.  It  msv  truly  be  said 
to  have  neither  force  nctr  will,  but  merely  judgment;  and  must 
ultimately  depend  upon  the  aid  of  the  executive  arm  for  the  effica- 
cious exercise  even  of  this  faculty. 

This  simple  view  of  the  matter  suggests  several  important  con- 
sequences :  it  proves  incontestably,  that  the  judiciary  is  beyond 
comparison  the  weakest  of  the  three  departments  of  power;*  that 
it  can  never  attack  with  success  either  of  the  other  two;  and  that 
all  possible  care  is  requisite  to  enable  it  to  defend  itself  against 
their  attacks.     It  equallfr  proves,   that   though   individual   oppres- 

*  Montesquieu,  speaking  of  them,  says,  "  Of  the  three  powers  above  mentioned,  tba 
JUDICIARY  is  next  to  nothing."    Spirit  of  Laws,  vol.  1,  page  186. 

47 


886  THE  FEDERALIST. 

sion  may  now  and  then  proceed  from  the  courts  of  justice,  the 
general  UHerty  of  the  people  can  never  be  endangered  from  that 
quarter;  I  mean  so  lonj;  as  tl)e  judiciary  remains  truly  distinct 
froii*  both  the  lepslature  and  executive.  For  I  agree,  that  "there 
"is  no  liberty,  if  the  pnwer  «)f  judging  be  not  scpaiated  from  the 
"  legislative  and  executive  powers."*  Jt  proves,  in  the  last  place, 
that  as  liberty  can  have  nothing  to  fear  from  the  judiciary  alone, 
but  would  have  tivery  thing  to  fear  from  its  union  with  either  of 
the  other  departments  ;  that  as  all  the  effects  of  such  an  union 
must  ensue  from  a  dependence  of  the  former  on  the  latter,  not- 
withstanding a  nominal  and  apparent  separation  ;  that  as  from 
the  natural  feebleness  of  the  judiciary,  it  is  in  continual  jeopardy 
of  being  overpowered,  awed  or  influenced  by  its  coordinate  branch- 
es ;  that  as  nothing  can  contribute  so  much  to  its  firmness  and  in- 
dependence as  PERMANENCY  IN  OFFICE,  this  quality  may  therefore  be 
justly  regarded  as  an  indispensable  ingredient  in  its  constitution  ; 
and,  in  a  great  measure,  as  the  citadel  of  the  public  justice  and 
the  public  security. 

The  complete  independence  of  the  courts  of  justice  is  peculiar- 
ly essential  in  a  limited  constitution.  By  a  limited  constitution, 
I  understand  one  which  contains  certain  specified  exceptions  to 
the  legislative  authority  ;  such  for  instance,  as  that  it  shall  pass  no 
bills  of  attainder,  no  ex  post  facto  laws,  and  the  like.  Limitations 
of  this  kind  can  be  preserved  in  ])ractice  no  other  way  than 
through  the  medium  of  the  courts  of  justice;  whose  duty  it  must 
be  to  declare  all  acts  contrary  to  the  manifest  tenour  of  the  consti- 
tution void.  Without  this,  all  the  reservations  of  particular  rights 
or  privileges  would  amount  to  nothing. 

Some  perplexity  respecting  the  rights  of  the  courts  to  pronounce 
legislative  acts  void,  because  contrary  to  the  constituMon,  has 
arisen  from  an  imagination  that  the  doctrine  would  imply  a  superi- 
ority of  the  judiciary  to  the  legislative  power.  It  is  urged  that 
the  authority  which  can  declare  the  acts  of  another  void,  must 
necessarily  be  superiour  to  the  one  whose  acts  may  be  declared 
void.  As  this  doctrine  is  of  great  importance  in  all  the  American 
constitutions,  a  brief  discussion  of  the  grounds  on  which  it  rests 
cannot  be  unacceptable. 

There  is  no  position  which  depends  on  clearer  principles,  than 
that  every  act  of  a  delegated  authority,  contrary  to  the  tenour  of 
the  commission  under  which  it  is  exercitJed,  is  void.  No  legisla- 
tive act,  therefore,  contrary  to  the  constitufion,  can  be  valid.  To 
deny  this,  would  be  to  affirm,  that  the  deputy  is  greater  than  his 

*  Spirit  of  Laws,  vol.  1,  pag«  181. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  887 

principal;  that  the  servant  is  above  his  master;  that  the  repre- 
sentatives of  the  people  are  siiperiour  to  the  people  themselves  ; 
that  men,  acting  by  virtue  of  powers,  may  do  not  only  what  their 
powers  do  tiot  antliorize,  but  what  they  forbid. 

If  it  be  said  that  the  legislative  body  are  themselves  the  consti- 
tutional judges  of  their  own  powers,  and  that  the  construction 
they  put  upon  them  is  conclusive  upon  the  other  departments,  it 
may  be  answered,  that  this  cannot  be  the  natural  presumption, 
where  it  is  not  to  be  recollected  from  any  particular  provisions  in 
the  constitution.  It  is  not  otherwise  to  be  supposed,  that  the  con- 
stitution could  intend  to  enable  the  representatives  of  the  people 
to  substitute  their  will  to  that  of  their  constituents.  It  is  far  more 
rational  to  suppose,  that  the  courts  were  designed  to  be  an  inter- 
mediate body  between  the  people  and  the  legislature,  in  order, 
among  other  things,  to  keep  the  latter  within  the  limits  assigned 
to  their  authority.  The  interpretation  of  the  laws  is  the  proper 
and  peculiar  province  of  the  courts.  A  constitution  is,  in  fact, 
and  must  be  regarded  by  the  judges  as  a  fundamental  law.  It 
must  therefore  belong  to  them  to  ascertain  its  meaning,  as  well  as 
the  meaning  of  any  particular  act  proceeding  from  the  legislative 
body.  If  there  should  happen  to  be  an  irreconcilable  variance 
between  the  two,  that  which  has  the  superiour  obligation  and 
validity  ought,  of  course,  to  be  preferred  :  in  other  words,  the  con- 
stitution ought  to  be  preferred  to  the  statute  ;  the  intention  of  the 
people  to  the  intention  of  their  agents. 

Nor  does  the  conclusion  by  any  means  suppose  a  superiority  of 
the  judicial  to  the  legislative  power.  It  only  supposes  that  the 
power  of  the  people  is  superiour  to  both  ;  and  that  where  the  will 
of  the  legislature  declared  in  its  statutes,  stands  in  opposition  to 
that  of  the  people  declared  iu  the  constitution,  the  judges  ought  to 
be  governed  by  the  latter  rather  than  the  former.  They  ought  to 
regulate  their  decisions  by  the  fundamental  laws,  rather  than  by 
those  which  are  not  fundamental. 

This  exercise  of  judicial  discretion,  in  determining  between  two 
contradictory  laws,  is  exemplified  in  a  familiar  instance.  It  not 
uncommonly  happens,  that  there  are  two  statutes  existing  at  one 
time,  clashing  in  whole  or  in  part  with  each  other,  and  neither  of 
them  containing  any  repealing  clause  or  expression.  In  such  a 
ca^e,  it  is  the  province  of  the  courts  to  liquidate  and  fix  their 
meaning  and  operation:  so  far  as  they  can,  by  any  fair  construc- 
tion, be  reconciled  to  each  other,  reason  and  law  conspire  to  dic- 
tate that  this  should  be  done  :  where  this  is  impracticable,  it  be- 
comes a  matter  of  necessity  to  give  effect  to  onC)  in  exclusion  of 


388  THE  FEDERALIST. 

the  other.  The  rule  which  has  obtained  in  the  courts  for  deter- 
miiiin&lt;r  their  relative  vahdity  is,  that  the  last  in  order  of  time  shall 
be  preferred  to  the  first.  But  this  is  a  mere  rule  of  construction, 
not  derived  from  any  positive  law,  but  from  the  nature  and  reason 
of  the  thing.  It  is  a  rule  not  enjoined  upon  the  courts  by  legisla- 
tive provision,  but  adopted  by  themselves,  as  consonant  to  truth 
and  propriety,  for  the  direction  of  their  conduct  as  interpreters  of 
the  law.  Tiiey  thouglit  it  reasonable,  that  between  the  interfering 
acts  of  an  equal  authority,  that  which  was  the  last  indication  of 
its  will,  should  have  the  preference. 

But  in  regard  to  the  interfering  acts  of  a  superiour  and  subor- 
dinate authority,  of  an  original  and  derivating  power,  the  nature 
and  reason  of  tlie  thing  indicate  the  converse  of  that  rule  as  prop- 
er to  be  followed.  They  teach  us,  that  the  prior  act  of  a  superiour 
ought  to  be  preferred  t(»  the  subseqiieut  act  of  an  inferiour  and 
subordinate  authority  ;  and  that  accordingly,  whenever  a  particu- 
lar statute  contravenes  the  constitution,  it  will  be  the  duty  of  the 
judicial  tribunals  to  adhere  to  the  latter,  and  disregard  the  former. 

It  can  be  of  no  weight  to  say  that  the  courts,  on  the  pretence  of 
a  repugnancy,  may  substitute  their  own  pleasure  to  the  constitu- 
tional intentions  of  the  legislature.  This  might  as  well  happen  in 
the  case  of  two  contradictory  statutes  ;  or  it  might  as  well  happen 
in  every  adjudication  upon  any  single  statute.  The  courts  must 
declare  the  sense  of  the  law  ;  and  if  they  should  be  disposed  to 
exercise  will  instead  of  juoGMf.NT,  the  consequence  would  equal- 
ly be  the  substitution  of  their  pleasure  to  that  of  the  legislative 
body.  The  observation,  if  it  proved  ar:y  thing,  would  prove  that 
there  ought  to  be  no  judges  distiuct  from  that  body. 

If  then  the  courts  of  justice  are  to  be  considered  as  tlie  bul- 
warks of  a  limited  constitution,  against  legislative  encroachments, 
this  consideration  will  afford  a  strong  argument  for  the  permanent 
tenure  of  judicial  oflices,  since  nothing  will  contribute  so  much  as 
this  to  that  independent  spirit  in  the  judges,  va  Inch  must  be  essen- 
tial to  the  faithful  performance  of  so  arduous  a  duty. 

This  independence  of  the  judges  is  equally  requisite  to  guard 
the  constitution  and  the  rights  of  individuals,  from  the  effects  of 
those  ill  humours  which  the  arts  of  designing  men,  or  the  influ- 
ence of  particular  conjunctures,  sometimes  disseminate  among  the 
people  themselves,  and  which,  though  they  speedily  give  place  to 
better  information,  and  more  deliberate  reflection,  have  a  tenden- 
cy, in  the  mean  time,  to  occasion  dangerous  innovations  in  the 
government,  and  serious  oppressions  of  the  minor  party  in  the 
community.     Though  I  trust  the  friends  of  the  proposed  constitu- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  389 

tion  will  never  concur  with  its  enemies,*  in  questioning  that  fund- 
amental principle  of  republican  government,  which  admits  the 
right  of  the  people  to  alter  or  abolish  the  established  constitution 
whenever  they  find  it  inconsistent  with  their  happiness;  yet  it  is 
not  to  be  inferred  from  this  principle,  that  the  representatives  of 
the  people,  whenever  a  momentary  inclination  happens  to  lay  hold 
of  a  majority  of  their  constituents,  incompatible  with  the  provis- 
ions in  the  existing  constitution,  would,  on  that  account,  be  justifi- 
able in  a  violation  of  those  provisions  ;  or  that  the  courts  would 
be  under  a  greater  obligation  to  connive  at  infractions  in  this 
shape,  than  when  they  had  proceeded  wholly  from  the  cabals  of 
the  representative  body.  Until  the  people  have,  by  some  solemn 
and  authoritative  act,  annulled  or  changed  the  established  form,  it 
is  binding  upon  themselves  collectively,  as  well  as  individually; 
and  no  presumption,  or  even  knowledge  of  their  sentiments,  can 
warrant  their  representatives  in  a  departure  from  it,  prior  to  such 
an  act.  But  it  is  easy  to  see,  that  it  would  require  an  uncommon 
portion  of  fortitude  in  the  judges  to  do  their  duty  as  faithful  guar- 
dians of  the  constitution,  where  legislative  invasions  of  it  had  been 
instigated  by  the  major  voice  of  the  community. 

But  it  is  not  with  a  view  to  infractions  of  the  constitution  only, 
that  the  independence  of  the  judges  may  he  an  essential  safeo-uard 
against  the  effects  of  occasional  ill  humours  in  the  society.  These 
sometimes  extend  no  farther  than  to  the  injury  of  the  private 
rights  of  particular  classes  of  citizens,  by  unjust  and  partial  laws. 
Here  also  the  firmness  of  the  judicial  magistracy  is  of  vast  im- 
portance in  mitigating  the  severity,  and  confining  the  operation 
of  such  laws.  It  not  ouly  serves  to  moderate  the  immediate  mis- 
chiefs of  those  which  n)ay  have  been  passed,  but  it  operates  as  a 
check  upon  the  legislative  body  in  passing  them  ;  who,  perceiving 
that  obstacles  to  the  success  of  an  iniquitous  intention  are  to  be 
expected  from  the  scruples  of  the  courts,  are  in  a  manner  com- 
pelled, by  the  very  motives  of  the  injustice  they  meditate,  to  quali- 
fy their  attempts.  This  is  a  circumstance  calculated  to  have  more 
influence  upon  the  character  of  our  governments,  than  but  few 
may  imagine.  The  benefits  of  the  integrity  and  moderation  of 
the  judiciary  have  already  been  felt  in  more  states  than  one  ;  and 
though  they  may  have  displeased  those  whose  sinister  expectations 
they  may  have  disappointed,  they  must  have  commanded  the 
esteem  and  applause  of  all  the  virtuous  and  disinterested.  Con- 
siderate men,  of  every  description,  ought  to  prize  whatever  will 
tend  to  beget  or  fortify  that  temper  in  the  courts  ;  as  no  man  can 

•  Vide  protest  of  the  minority  of  the  convention  of  Pennsylvania,  Martin's  speech,  Sec. 


390  THE  FEDERALIST. 

be  sure  that  he  may  not  be  to-morrow  the  victim  of  a  spirit  of  in- 
justice, by  which  he  may  be  a  gainer  to-day.  And  every  man 
must  now  feel,  that  the  inevitable  tendency  of  such  a  spirit  is  to 
sap  the  foundations  of  public  and  private  confidence,  and  to  in- 
troduce in  its  stead  universal  distrust  and  distress. 

That  inflexible  and  uniform  adherence  to  the  rights  of  the  con- 
stitution, and  of  individuals,  which  we  perceive  to  be  indispensa- 
ble in  the  courts  of  justice,  can  certainly  not  be  expected  from 
judges  who  hold  their  offices  by  a  temporary  commission.  Peri- 
odical appointments,  hosvever  regulated,  or  by  whomsoever  made, 
would,  in  some  way  or  other,  be  fatal  to  tlieir  necessary  indepen- 
dence. If  the  power  of  making  them  was  committed  either  to 
the  executive  or  legislature,  there  would  be  danger  of  an  improper 
complaisance  to  the  branch  which  possessed  it;  if  to  both,  there 
would  be  an  unwillingness  to  hazard  the  displeasure  of  either  ;  if 
to  the  people,  or  to  persons  chosen  by  them  for  the  special  pur- 
pose, there  would  be  too  great  a  disposition  to  consult  popularity, 
to  justify  a  reliance  that  nothing  would  be  consulted  but  the  con- 
stitution and  the  laws. 

There  is  yet  a  further  and  a  weighty  reason  for  the  permanency 
of  judicial  offices  ;  which  is  deducible  from  the  nature  of  the  qual- 
ifications they  require.  It  has  been  frequently  remarked,  with 
great  propriety,  that  a  voluminous  code  of  laws  is  one  of  the  in- 
conveniences necessarily  connected  with  the  advantages  of  a  free 
government.  To  avoid  nn  arbitrary  discretion  in  the  courts,  it  is 
indispensable  that  they  should  be  bound  down  by  strict  rules  and 
precedents,  which  serve  to  define  and  point  out  their  duty  in  every 
particular  case  that  comes  before  them  ;  and  it  will  readily  be 
conceived,  from  the  variety  of  controversies  which  grow  out  of 
the  fidly  and  wickedness  of  mankind,  that  the  records  of  those 
precedents  must  unavoidably  swell  to  a  very  considerable  bulk, 
and  must  demand  long  and  laborious  study  to  acquire  a  competent 
knowledge  of  them.  Hence  it  is,  that  there  can  be  but  few  men 
in  the  society,  who  will  have  sufficient  skill  in  the  laws  to  qualify 
them  for  the  stations  of  judges.  And  making  the  proper  deduc- 
tions for  the  ordinary  depravity  of  human  nature,  the  number 
must  be  still  smaller  of  those  w  ho  unite  the  requisite  integrity  with 
the  requisite  knowledge.  These  considerations  apprize  us,  that 
the  government  can  have  no  great  option  between  fit  characters  ; 
and  that  a  temporary  duration  in  office,  which  would  naturally  dis- 
courage such  characters  from  quitting  a  lucrative  line  of  practice 
to  accept  a  seat  on  the  bench,  would  have  a  tendency  to  throw  the 
administration  of  justice  into  hands  less  able,  and  less  well-qualifi- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  391 

ed,  to  conduct  it  with  utility  and  dignity.  In  the  present  circum- 
stances of  this  country,  and  in  those  in  which  it  is  likely  to  be  for 
a  lons^  time  to  come,  the  disadvantages  on  this  score  would  be 
greater  than  they  may  at  first  s'tiht  appear;  but  it  must  be  con- 
fessed, that  they  are  far  inferiourto  those  which  present  themselves 
under  the  other  aspects  of  the  subject. 

Upon  tlie  whole,  tliere  can  be  no  room  to  doubt,  that  the  con- 
vention acted  wisely  in  copying  from  the  models  of  those  constitu- 
tions v.hich  l.iave  established  good  behaviour  as  the  tenure  of  judi- 
cial offices,  in  point  of  duration  ;  and  that  so  far  from  being  blam- 
able  on  this  account,  their  plan  would  have  been  inexcusably  de- 
fective, if  it  had  wanted  this  important  feature  of  good  govern- 
ment. The  experience  of  Great  Britain  aftords  an  illustrious  com- 
ment on  the  excellence  of  the  institution. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXXIX. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

A  fvrtlier  Viexc  of  the  Judicial  J'^cpartmcnt,  in  relation  to  the  Pro- 
visions for  the  Support  and  Responsibility  of  the  Judges. 
Next  &gt;  permanency  in  office,  nothing  can  contribute  more  to 
the  independence  of  the  judges,  than  a  fixed  provision  for  their 
support.  The  remark  made  in  relation  to  the  president  is  equally 
applicable  here.  In  the  general  course  of  human  nature,  a  poicer 
over  a  man^s  subsistence  amounts  to  a  power  over  his  will.  And  we 
can  never  hope  to  tee  realized  in  practice  the  complete  separation 
of  the  judicial  from  the  legislative  power,  in  any  system  which 
leaves  the  former  dependent  for  pecuniary  resource  on  the  occa- 
sional grants  of  the  latter.  The  enlightened  friends  to  good  gov- 
ernment, in  every  state,  have  seen  cause  to  lament  the  want  of 
precise  and  explicit  precautions  in  the  state  constitutions  on  this 
head.  Some  of  these  indeed  have  declared,  that  permanent*  sala- 
ries should  be  established  for  the  judges;  but  the  experiment  has 
in  some  instances  shown,  that  sucli  expressions  are  not  sufficiently 
definite  to  preclude  legislative  evasions.  Something  still  more 
positive  and  unequivocal  has  been  evinced  to  be  requisite.  The 
plan  of  the  convention  accordingly  has  provided,  that  the  judges 
of  the  United  States  "  shall  at  stated  times  receive  for  their  ser- 
♦'  vices  a  com[)ensation,  which  shall  not  be  diminished  during  their 
"  continuance  in  office." 

*  Vide  constitutioo  of  Massachusetts,  ehap.  2,  sect.  1 ,  art.  13. 


392  THE  FEDERALIST. 

This,  all  circumstances  considered,  is  the  most  eligible  provision 
that  could  have  been  devised.  It  will  readily  be  understood,  that 
the  fluctuations  in  the  value  of  money,  and  in  the  state  of  society, 
rendered  a  fixed  rate  of  compensation  in  the  constitution  inadmis- 
sible. What  might  be  extravagant  to-day,  might  in  half  a  century 
become  penurious  and  inadequate.  It  was  therefore  necessary  to 
leave  it  to  the  discretion  of  the  legislature  to  vary  its  provisions 
in  conformity  to  the  variations  in  circumstances;  yet  under  such 
restrictions  as  to  put  it  out  of  the  power  of  that  body  to  change 
the  condition  of  tiie  individual  for  the  worse.  A  man  may  then 
be  sure  of  the  ground  upon  which  he  stands,  and  can  never  be  de- 
terred from  his  duty  by  the  apprehension  of  being  placed  in  a  less 
eligible  situation.  The  clause  which  has  been  qur)ted  combines 
both  advantages.  The  salaries  of  judicial  offices  may  from  time 
to  time  be  altered,  as  occasion  shall  require,  yet  so  as  never  to 
lessen  the  allowance  with  which  any  particular  judge  comes  into 
office,  in  respect  to  him.  It  will  be  observed,  that  a  difference 
has  been  made  by  the  convention  between  the  compensation  of 
the  president  and  of  the  judges.  That  of  the  former  can  neither 
be  increased,  nor  diminished.  That  of  the  latter  can  only  not  be 
diniinished.  This  probably  arose  from  the  difference  in  the  dura- 
tion of  the  respective  offices.  As  the  president  is  to  be  elected 
for  no  more  than  four  years,  it  can  rarely  happen  that  an  ade- 
quate salary,  fixed  at  the  commencement  of  that  period,  will  not 
contitme  to  be  such  to  its  end.  But  with  regard  to  the  judges, 
who,  if  they  behave  properly,  will  be  secured  in  their  places  for 
life,  it  may  well  happen,  especially  in  the  early  stages  of  the  gov- 
ernment, that  a  stipend,  which  would  be  very  sufficient  at  their 
first  appointment,  would  become  too  small  in  the  progress  of  their 
service. 

This  provision  for  the  support  of  the  judges  bears  every  mark 
of  prudence  and  efficacy  ;  and  it  may  be  safely  affirmed,  that  to- 
gether with  the  permanent  tenure  of  their  offices,  it  affords  a  bet- 
ter prospect  of  their  independence  than  is  discoverable  in  the 
constitutions  of  any  of  the  states,  in  regard  to  their  own  judges. 

The  precautions  for  their  responsibility  are  comprised  in  the 
article  respecting  impeachments.  They  are  liable  to  be  impeach- 
ed for  maleconduct  by  the  house  of  representatives,  and  tried  by 
the  senate  ;  and,  if  convicted,  may  be  dismissed  from  office,  and 
disqualified  from  holding  any  other.  This  is  the  only  provision  on 
the  point,  which  is  consistent  with  the  necessary  independence  of 
the  judicial  character ;  and  is  the  only  one  which  we  find  in  our 
own  constitution  in  respect  to  our  own  judges. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  393 

The  want  of  provision  for  removing  the  judges  on  account  of 
inability,  has  been  a  subject  of  complaint.  But  all  considerate 
men  will  be  sensible,  that  such  a  provision  would  either  not  be 
practised  upon,  or  would  be  more  liable  to  abuse,  than  calculated 
to  answer  any  good  purpose.  The  mensuration  of  the  faculties  of 
the  mind  has,  I  believe,  no  place  in  the  catalogue  of  known  arts. 
An  attempt  to  fix  the  boundary  between  the  regions  of  ability  and 
inability,  would  much  oftenor  give  scope  to  personal  and  party  at- 
tachments and  enmities,  than  advance  the  interests  of  justice, 
or  the  public  good.  The  result,  except  in  the  case  of  insanity, 
must  for  the  most  part  be  arbitrary;  and  insanity,  without  any 
formal  or  express  provision,  may  be  safely  pronounced  to  be  a 
virtual  disqualification. 

The   constitution   of   New  York,  to  avoid   investigations   that 
must  for  ever  be  vague  and  dangerous,  has  taken  a  particular   age 
as  the  criterion  of  inability.     No  man  can  be  a  judge  beyond  sixty. 
I  believe  there  are  few  at  present,  who  do   not   disapprove   of  this 
provision.     There  is   no   station,   in   relation   to   which   it   is  less 
proper,  than  to  that  of  a  judge.     The  deliberating  and   comparing 
faculties  generally  preserve  their  strength  much  beyond  that   peri- 
od, in  men  who  survive  it ;  and  when,  in  addition  to   this   circum- 
stance, we  consider  how  few  there  are  who  outlive  the  season   of 
intellectual  vigour,  and  how  improbable  it  is  that   any   considera- 
ble  proportion   of   the  bench,   whether   more   or  less   lunnerous, 
should  be  in  such  a  situation  at  the  same  time,  we  shall   he  ready 
to  conclude,  that  limitations  of  this  sort  have  little  to   recommend 
them.     In  a  republic,  where  fortunes  are  not  affluent,  and  pensions 
not  expedient,  the  dismission  of  men  from  stations   in  which  they 
have  served  their  country  long  and  usefully,  on  which  they  depend 
for  subsistence,  and  from  which  it  will  be  too  late  to  resort  to  any 
other  occupation  for  a  livelihood,  ought  to  have  some  better  apolo- 
gy to  humanity,  than  is  to  be  found  in  the  imaginary  danger   of  a 
superannuated  bench.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXXX. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

A  further  View  of  the  Judicial  Department,  in  relation  to  the  Ex- 
tent of  its  Powers. 
To  judge  with  accuracy  of  the  due  extent  of  the  federal  judica- 
ture, it  will  be  necessary  to  consider,  in  the  first  place,  what  arc 
its  proper  objects. 

4S 


394  THE  FEDERALIST. 

It  seems  scarcely  to  admit  of  controversy,  that  the  judiciary 
authority  of  the  union  ought  to  extend  to  these  several  descrip- 
tions of  cases  :  1st.  To  all  those  which  arise  out  of  the  laws  of 
the  United  States,  passed  in  pursuance  of  their  just  and  constitu- 
tional powers  of  legishition  :  2d.  To  all  those  which  concern  the 
execution  of  the  provisions  expressly  contained  in  the  articles  of 
union  :  3d.  To  all  those  in  which  the  United  States  are  a  party: 
4th.  To  all  those  which  involve  the  i'eace  of  the  confederacy, 
whether  they  relate  to  the  intercourse  hetween  the  United  States 
and  foreign  nations,  or  to  that  hetween  the  states  themselves  : 
5th.  To  all  those  which  oiiginate  on  the  high  seas,  and  are  of  ad- 
miralty or  maritime  jurisdiction  ;  and,  lastly,  to  all  tliose  in  which 
the  state  tribunals  cannot  be  supposed  to  be  impartial  and  un- 
biased. 

The  first  point  depends  upon  this  obvious  consideration,  that 
there  ought  always  to  be  a  constitutional  method  of  giving  effica- 
cy to  constitutional  provisions.  What,  for  instance,  would  avail 
restrictions  on  the  autiu)rity  of  the  state  legislatures,  without  some 
constitutional  mode  of  enforcing  the  observance  of  them  ?  The 
states,  by  the  plan  of  the  convention,  are  prohibited  from  doing  a 
variety  of  things  ;  some  of  which  are  incompatible  with  the  inter- 
ests of  the  union  ;  others,  with  the  principles  of  good  govern- 
ment. The  imposition  of  duties  on  imported  articles,  and  the 
emission  of  paper  money,  are  specimens  of  each  kind.  No  man 
of  sense  will  believe,  that  such  jjrohibitions  would  be  scrupulously 
regarded,  without  some  effectual  power  in  the  government  to  re- 
strain or  correct  the  infractions  of  them.  This  power  must  either 
be  a  direct  negative  on  the  state  laws,  or  an  authority  in  the  fed- 
eral courts  to  overrule  such  as  might  be  in  manliest  contravention 
of  the  articles  of  union.  There  is  no  third  course  that  I  can  im- 
agine. The  latter  appears  to  have  been  thought  by  the  convention 
preferable  to  the  former,  and,  I  presume,  will  be  most  agreeable 
to  the  states. 

As  to  the  second  point,  it  is  impossible,  by  any  argument  or 
comment,  to  make  it  clearer  than  it  is  in  itself.  If  there  are  such 
things  as  political  axioms,  the  propriety  of  the  judicial  power  of 
a  government  being  coextensive  with  its  legislative,  may  be  rank- 
ed among  the  number.  The  mere  necessity  of  uniformity  in  the 
interpretation  of  the  national  laws,  decides  the  question.  Thir- 
teen independent  courts  of  final  jurisdiction  over  the  same  causes, 
arising  upon  the  same  laws,  is  a  hydra  in  government,  from  which 
nothing  but  contradiction  and  confusion  can  proceed. 

Still  less  need  be  said  in  regard  to  the  third  point.     Controver- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  395 

sies  between  the  nation  and  its  members,  or  citizens,  can  only  be 
properly  referred  to  the  natioiml  tribiinnls.  Any  other  plan  would 
be  contrary  to  reason,  to  precedent,  and  to  decorum. 

The  fourth  point  rest.s  on  this  plain  proposition,  that  the  peace 
of  the  WHOLE  oui;ht  not  to  be  left  at  ihe  disp.isal  of  a  part. 
The  union  will  undoubtedly  be  answerable  to  foreign  powers  for 
the  conduct  of  its  members.  And  the  responsibility  for  an  injury- 
ought  ever  to  be  accompanied  with  the  facidty  of  preventing  it. 
As  the  denial  or  perversion  of  justice,  by  the  sentences  of  courts, 
is  with  reason  classed  among  the  just  causes  of  war,  it  will  follow, 
that  the  federal  judiciary  ought  to  have  cognizance  of  all  causes  in 
which  the  citizens  of  other  countries  are  concerned.  This  is  not 
less  essential  to  the  preservation  of  the  public  faith,  than  to  the  secu- 
rity of  the  public  tranquillity.  A  distinction  may  perhaps  be  imag- 
ined, between  cases  arising  u|)on  tieaties  and  the  laws  of  nations, 
and  those  which  may  stand  merely  on  the  footing  of  the  municipal 
law.  The  former  kind  may  be  supposed  proper  for  the  federal 
jurisdiction  ;  the  latter  for  that  of  the  states.  But  it  is  at  least 
problematical,  whether  an  unjust  sentence  against  a  foreigner, 
where  the  subject  of  controversy  was  wholly  relative  to  the  lex 
loci,  would  not,  if  unredressed,  be  an  aggression  upon  his  sovereign 
as  well  as  one  which  violated  the  stipulations  of  a  treaty,  or  the 
general  law  of  nations.  And  a  still  greater  objection  to  the  dis- 
tinction would  result  from  the  immense  ditRculty,  if  not  impossi- 
bility, of  a  practical  discrimination  between  the  cases  of  one  com- 
plexion and  those  of  the  other.  So  great  a  proportion  of  the  con- 
troversies in  which  foreigners  are  parties  involve  national  ques- 
tions, that  it  is  by  far  most  safe  and  most  expedient,  to  refer  all 
those  in  which  they  are  concerned  to  the  national  tribunals. 

The  power  of  determining  causes  between  two  states,  between 
one  state  and  the  citizens  of  another,  and  between  the  citizens  of 
different  states,  is  perhaps  not  less  essential  to  the  peace  of  the 
union,  than  that  which  has  been  just  examined.  History  gives  us 
a  horrid  picture  of  the  dissensions  and  private  wars  which  distract- 
ed and  desolated  Germany,  prior  to  the  institution  of  the  imfkrial 
CHAMBER  by  Maxinnlian,  towards  the  close  of  the  fifteenth  centu- 
ry ;  and  informs  us,  at  the  same  time,  of  the  vast  influence  of  that 
institution,  in  appeasing  the  disorders,  and  establishing  the  tran- 
quillity of  thn  empire.  This  was  a  coin-t  invested  with  authority 
to  decide  finally  all  differences  among  the  members  of  the  Ger- 
manic body. 

A  method  of  terminating  territorial  disputes  between  the  states, 
under  the  authority  of  the  federal  head,  was  not  unattended  to, 


396  THE  FEDERALIST. 

even  in  the  imperfect  system  by  which  they  have  been  hitherto 
held  together.  But  there  are  other  sources,  besides  interfering 
claims  of  boundary,  from  which  bickerings  and  animosities  may 
spring  up  among  the  members  of  the  union.  To  some  of  these, 
we  have  been  witnesses  in  the  course  of  our  past  experience.  It 
will  readily  be  conjectured,  that  I  allude  to  the  fraudulent  laws 
which  have  been  passed  in  too  many  of  the  states.  And  though 
the  proposed  constitution  establishes  particular  guards  against  the 
repetition  of  those  instances,  which  have  heretofore  made  their 
appearance  ;  yet  it  is  warrantable  to  apprehend,  that  the  spirit 
which  produced  them  will  assume  new  shapes  that  could  not  be 
foreseen,  nor  specifically  provided  against.  Whatever  practices 
may  have  a  tendency  to  disturb  the  harmony  of  the  states,  are 
proper  objects  of  federal  superintendence  and  control. 

It  may  be  esteemed  the  basis  of  the  union,  that  "  the  citizens  of 
"  each  state  shall  be  entitled  to  all  the  privileges  and  immunities 
"of  citizens  of  the  several  states."  And  if  it  be  a  just  principle, 
that  every  governnient  ought  to  possess  the  means  of  executing'  its 
own  provisions,  by  its  own  authority,  it  will  follow,  that  in  order  to 
the  inviolable  maintenance  of  that  equality  of  privileges  and  im- 
munities to  which  the  citizens  of  the  union  will  be  entitled,  the 
national  judiciary  ought  to  preside  in  all  cases  in  which  one  state 
or  its  citizens  are  opposed  to  another  state  or  its  citizens.  To  se- 
cure the  full  effect  of  so  fundamental  a  provision  against  all  eva- 
sion and  subterfuge,  it  is  necessary  that  its  construction  should  be 
committed  to  that  tribunal,  which  having  no  local  attachments, 
will  be  likely  to  be  impartial  between  the  different  states  and  their 
citizens,  and  which,  owing  its  official  existence  to  the  union,  will 
never  be  likely  to  feel  any  bias  inauspicious  to  the  iirinciples  on 
which  it  is  founded. 

The  fifth  point  will. demand  little  animadversion.  The  most 
bigoted  idolizers  of  state  authority,  have  not  thus  far  shown  a  dis- 
position to  deny  the  national  judiciary  the  cognizance  of  maritime 
causes.  These  so  generally  depend  on  the  laws  of  nations,  and 
so  commonly  affect  the  rights  of  foreigners,  that  they  fall  within 
the  considerations  which  are  relative  to  the  public  peace.  The 
most  important  part  of  theni  are,  by  the  present  confederation, 
submitted  to  federal  jurisdiction. 

The  reasonableness  of  the  agency  of  tlie  national  courts,  in 
cases  in  which  the  state  tribunals  cannot  be  supposed  to  be  im- 
partial, speaks  fur  itself.  No  man  ought  certainly  to  be  a  judge 
in  his  own  cause,  or  in  any  cause,  in  respect  to  which  he  has  the 
icast  interest  or  bia?.     This  piincii)lc  has  no  inconsiderable  weight 


THE  FEDERALIST.  397 

in  designating  the  federal  courts,  as  the  proper  tribunals  for  the 
determination  of  controversies  between  different  states  and  their 
citizens.  And  it  ought  to  have  the  same  operation,  in  reo'ard  to 
some  cases,  between  the  citizens  of  tlie  same  state.  Claims  to 
land  under  grants  of  diflerent  states,  founded  upon  adverse  pre- 
tensions of  boundary,  are  of  this  description.  The  couits  of 
neither  of  tlie  granting  states  couhi  be  expected  to  be  unbiased. 
The  laws  may  have  even  prejudged  the  question,  and  tied  the 
courts  down  to  decisions  in  favour  of  the  grants  of  the  state  to 
■which  they  belonged.  And  where  this  had  not  been  done,  it  would 
be  natural  that  the  judges,  as  men,  should  feel  a  strong  predilection 
to  the  claims  of  their  own  goverinnent. 

Having  thus  laid  down  and  discussed  the  principles  which  ought 
to  regulate  the  constitution  of  the  federal  judiciary,  we  will  pro- 
ceed to  test,  by  these  principles,  the  particular  powers  of  which, 
according  to  the  jdan  of  the  convention,  it  is  to  be  composed.  It 
is  to  comprehend  "  all  cases  in  law  and  equity  arising  under  the 
"  constitution,  the  laws  of  the  United  States,  and  treaties  made, 
"  or  which  shall  be  made,  under  their  authority  ;  to  all  cases  af- 
"  fecting  ambassadors,  other  public  ministers,  and  consuls  ;  to  all 
"  cases  of  admiralty  and  maritime  jurisdiction  ;  to  controversies 
"  to  which  the  Uiiitad  States  shall  be  a  party  ;  to  controversies 
"  between  two  or  more  states  ;  between  a  state  and  citizens  of 
"  another  state  ;  between  citizens  of  different  states  ;  between  cit- 
"  izens  of  the  same  state,  claiming  lands  under  grants  of  different 
"  states;  and  between  a  state  or  the  citizens  thereof,  and  foreijin 
"  states,  citizens,  and  subjects."  This  constitutes  the  entire  mass 
of  the  judicial  auth.ority  of  the  union.  Let  us  now  review  it  in 
detail.     It  is  then  to  extend, 

First.  To  all  cases  in  law  and  equity,  arising  wider  the  constitu- 
tion and  the  laws  of  the  United  States.  This  corresponds  with  the 
two  first  classes  of  causes,  which  have  been  enumerated,  as  proper 
for  the  jurisdiction  of  the  United  States.  It  has  been  asked,  what 
is  meant  by  "  cases  arising  under  the  constitution,"  in  contradis- 
tinction from  those  '•  arising  under  the  laws  of  the  United  States  ?" 
The  difference  has  been  already  explained.  All  the  restrictions 
upon  the  authority  of  the  state  legislatures  furnish  examples. 
They  are  not,  for  instance,  to  emit  paper  money  ;  but  the  inter- 
diction results  from  the  constitution,  and  will  have  no  connexion 
with  any  law  of  the  United  States.  Should  paper  money,  notwith- 
standing, be  emitted  the  controversies  concerning  it  would  be  cases 
arising  under  the  constitution  and  not  under  the  laws  of  the  Unit- 


398  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ed  States,  in  the  ordinary  signification  of  the  terms.      This  may 
serve  as  a  sample  of  the  whole. 

It  has  also  heen  asked,  what  need  of  the  word  "  equity  1"  What 
equitahle  causes  can  grow  out  of  the  constitution  and  laws  of  the 
United  States  1  There  is  hardly  a  subject  of  litigation  between 
individuals,  which  may  not  involve  those  ingredients  of  fraud,  acci' 
dent,  trust,  or  hardship,  which  would  render  the  matter  an  object 
of  equitable,  rather  than  of  legal  jurisdiction,  as  the  distinction  is 
known  and  established  in  several  of  the  states.  It  is  the  peculiar 
province,  for  instance,  of  a  court  of  equity  to  relieve  against  what 
are  called  hard  bargains  :  these  are  contracts  in  which,  though 
there  may  have  been  no  direct  frijud  or  deceit,  sufficient  to  invali- 
date them  in  a  court  of  law  ;  yet  there  may  have  been  some  undue 
and  unconscionable  advantage  taken  of  the  necessities  or  misfor- 
tunes of  one  of  the  parties,  which  a  court  of  equity  would  not 
tolerate.  In  such  cases,  where  foreigners  were  concerned  on  eith- 
er side,  it  would  be  impossible  for  the  federal  judicatories  to  do 
justice  without  an  equitable  as  well  as  a  legal  jurisdiction.  Agree- 
ments to  convey  lands  claimed  under  the  grants  of  different  states, 
may  afford  anothrr  example  of  the  necessity  of  an  equitable  ju- 
risdiction in  the  federal  courts.  This  reasoning  may  not  be  so 
palpable  in  those  states  where  the  formal  and  technical  distinc- 
tion between  law  and  equity  is  not  maintained,  as  in  this  state, 
where  it  is  exemplified  by  every  day's  practice. 

The  judiciary  authority  of  the  union  is  to  extend.... 

Second.  To  treaties  made,  or  which  shall  be  made,  under  the 
authority  of  the  United  Stales,  and  to  all  cases  affecting  ambassa- 
dors, other  public  ministers  and  consuls.  These  belong  to  the 
fourth  class  of  the  enumerated  cases,  as  they  have  an  evident  con- 
nexion with  the  preservation  of  the  national  peace. 

Third.  To  cases  of  admiralty  and  maritime  jurisdiction. 
These  form,  altogether,  the  fifth  of  the  enumerated  classes  of 
causes,  proper  for  the  cognizance  of  the  national  courts. 

Fourth.  To  controversies  to  which  the  United  States  shall  be  a 
party.     These  constitute  the  third  of  those  classes. 

Fifth.  To  controversies  between  two  or  more  states  ;  between 
a  state  and  citizens  of  another  state  ;  between  citizens  of  different 
states.  These  belong  to  the  fijurth  of  those  classes,  and  partake, 
in  some  measure,  of  the  nature  of  the  last. 

Sixth.  To  cases  between  the  citizens  of  the  same  state,  claim- 
ing lands  under  grants  of  dijfercnt  states.  These  fall  within  the 
last  class,  and  are  the  only  instances  in  which  the  proposed  constitu- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  399 

Hon  directly  contemplates  the  cognizance  of  disputes  between  the  citi- 
zens of  the  same  state. 

Seventh.  To  cases  between  a  state  and  the  citizens  thereof,  and 
foreign  states,  citizens  or  subjects.  These  have  been  already  ex- 
plained to  belong  to  the  fourth  of  the  enumerated  classes,  and 
have  been  shown  to  be,  in  a  peculiar  manner,  the  proper  subjects 
of  national  judicature. 

From  this  review  of  the  particular  powers  of  the  federal  judicia- 
ry, as  marked  out  in  the  constitution,  it  appears,  that  they  are  all 
conformable  to  the  principles  which  ought  to  have  governed  the 
structure  of  that  department,  and  which  were  necessary  to  the 
perfection  of  the  system.  If  some  partial  inconveniences  should 
appear  to  be  connected  with  the  incorporation  of  any  of  them  into 
the  plan,  it  ought  to  be  recollected,  that  the  national  legislature 
will  have  am])le  authority  to  make  such  exceptions,  and  to  prescribe 
such  regulations,  as  will  be  calculated  to  obviate  or  remove  these 
inconveniences.  The  possibility  of  particular  mischiefs  can  never 
be  viewed,  by  a  well-inforn)ed  mind,  as  a  solid  objection  to  a  prin- 
cijtle,  which  is  calculated  to  avoid  general  mischiefs,  and  to  obtain 
general  advantages.  PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXXXI 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

A  further  View  of  the  Judicial  Department,  in  relation  to  the  Dis- 
tribution of  its  Authority. 

Let  us  now  return  to  the  partition  of  the  judiciary  authority 
between  different  courts,  and  their  relations  to  each  other. 

"  The  judicial  power  of  the  United  States  is  to  be  vested  in  one 
"  supreme  court,  and  in  such  inferiour  courts  as  the  congress  may, 
"  from  time  to  time,  ordain  and  establish."*  That  there  ought  to 
be  one  court  of  supreme  and  final  jurisdiction,  is  a  proposition 
which  is  not  likely  to  be  contested.  The  reasons  for  it  have  been 
assigned  in  another  place,  and  are  too  obvious  to  need  repetition. 
The  only  question  that  seems  to  have  been  raised  concerning  it, 
is,  whether  it  ought  to  be  a  distinct  body,  or  a  branch  of  the  leg- 
islature. The  same  contradiction  is  observable  in  regard  to  this 
matter,  wliich  has  been  remarked  in  several  other  cases.  The 
very  men  who  object  to  the  senate  as  a  court  of  impeachments, 
on  the  ground  of  an  improper  intermixture  of  powers,  are  advo- 

*  Article  3,  sect.  1. 


400  THE  FEDERALIST. 

cates,  by  implication  at  least,  for  the  propriety  of  vesting  the  ulti- 
mate decision  of  all  causes,  in  the  whole  or  in  a  part  of  the  legis- 
lative body. 

The  arguments,  or  rather  suggestions,  upon   which  this  charge 
is  founded,  are  to  this   effect:     "The   authority   of   the   supreme 
"  court  of  the  United  States,  which  is  to  be  a  separate   and  inde- 
"  pendent  body,  will  be  superiour  to  that  of  the  legislature.     The 
"  power  of  construing  the  laws  according  to  the  sjnrit  of  the  con- 
"  stitution,  will   enable   that   court  to  mould   then)   into  whatever 
"  shape  it  may  think  proper  :  especially  as  its   decisions   will   not 
"  be  in  any  manner  subject  to  the   revision   or  correction  of  the 
"  leo-islative  body.     This  is  as  unprecedented  as  it  is  dangerous. 
"  In  Britain,  the  judicial  power  in   the  last  resort,   resides  in  the 
"  house  of  lords,  which  is  a  branch  of  the   legislature  ;    and  this 
"  part  of  the  British  government  has   been   imitated  in  the  state 
"  constitutions  in  general.     The  parliament  of  Great  Britain,  and 
"the  legislatures  of  the  several  states,  can  at  any  time  rectify,  by 
"  law,  the  exceptionable  decisions  of  their  respective  courts.     But 
•'  the  errours  and  usurpations  of  the  supreme  court  of  the  United 
*'  States,  will  be  uncontrollable  and  remediless."     This,  upon  ex- 
amination, will  be  found  to  be  altogether  made  up  of  false  reason- 
ing upon  misconceived  fact. 

In  the  first  place,  there  is  not  a  syllable  in  the  plan,  which 
(lirectJy  empowers  the  national  courts  to  construe  the  laws  accord- 
ing to  the  spirit  of  the  constitution,  or  which  gives  them  any  great- 
er latitude  in  this  respect,  than  may  be  claimed  by  the  courts  of 
every  state.  I  admit,  however,  that  the  constitution  ought  to  be 
the  standard  of  construction  for  the  laws,  and  that  wherever  there 
is  an  evident  opposition,  the  laws  ought  to  give  place  to  the  con- 
stitution. But  this  doctrine  is  not  deducible  from  any  circum'- 
stance  peculiar  to  the  plan  of  the  convention  ;  but  from  the  gen- 
eral theory  of  a  limited  constitution ;  and,  as  far  as  it  is  true,  is 
equally  applicable  to  most,  if  not  to  all  the  state  governments. 
There  can  be  no  objection,  therefore,  on  this  account,  to  the  fed- 
eral judicature,  which  will  not  lie  against  the  local  judicatures  in 
general,  and  which  will  not  serve  to  condemn  every  constitution 
that  attempts  to  set  bounds  to  legislative  discretion. 

But  perhaps  the  force  of  the  objection  may  be  thought  to  con- 
sist in  the  particular  organization  of  the  supreme  court ;  in  its  be- 
ing composed  of  a  distinct  body  of  magistrates  instead  of  being 
one  of  the  branches  of  the  legislature,  as  in  the  government  of 
Great  Britain  and  in  that  of  this  state.  To  insist  upon  this  point, 
the  authors  of  the  objection  must  renounce  the  meaning  they  have 


THE  FEDERALIST.  401 

laboured  to  annex  to  the  celebrated  maxim,  requiring  a  separation 
of  the  departments  of  power.     It  shall,  nevertheless,  be  conceded 
to  them,  agreeably  to  the  iiiterpretati(Mi  given  to  thai  maxim  in  the 
course  of  these  papers,  that  it  is  not  viohited   hy  vesting  ilie  uhi- 
mate  power  of   judging  in  a  part   of  tlie   legislative   body.     But 
thoui»-h  this  be   not  an  absolute  violation   of  that  excellent  ride  ; 
yet  it  verges  so  nearly  upon  it,  as  on  this  account  alone,  to  be  less 
eligible  than  the  mode  preferred  by  the  convention.     From  a  body 
which  had  had  even  a  partial  agency  in  passing  bad  laws,  we  could 
rarely  expect  a  disposition  to  temper  and   moderate  them    in  the 
application.      The   same    spirit    which    had   operated   in    making 
them,  would  be  too  apt  to    influence  their  construction  :  still    less 
could  it  be  expected,  that  men  who  had  infringed  the  constitution, 
in  the  character  of  legislators,   would   be   disposed   to   repair  the 
breach  in   that  of  judges.     Nor   is  this  all  :  every   reason   which 
recommends  the  tenure  of  good  behaviour  for  judicial  offices,  mil- 
itates against  placing  the  judiciary  power,  in  the  last  resort,   in  a 
body  composed  of  men  chosen  for  a  limited  period.     There  is   an 
absurdity  in  referring  the  determinations  of  causes,   in  the  first 
instance,  to  judges  of  permanent  standing  ;  in  the  last,  to  those  of 
a  temporary  and  mutable  constitution.     And  there  is  a  still  great- 
er absurdity  in  subjecting  the  decisions  of  men   selected   for  their 
knowledge  of  the  laws,  acquired  by  long  and   laborious   study,   to 
the  revision  and  control  of  men  who,  for  want  of  the  same  advant- 
age, cannot  but  be  deficient  in  that  knowledge.     The  members  of 
the  legislature  will  rarely  be  chosen  with  a  view  to  those  qualifica- 
tions which  fit  men  for  the  stations  of  judges;  and  a&amp;   on  this  ac- 
count, there  will  be  great  reason  to  apprehend  all  the  ill  consequen- 
ces of  defective  information ;  so   on   account  of  the   natural    pro- 
pensity of  such  bodies  to   party   divisions,   there  will  be  no  less 
reason  to  fear,  that  the  pestilential  breath  of  faction   may   poison 
the  fountains  of  justice.     The  habit  of  being  continually  marshal- 
led on  opposite  sides,  will  be  too  apt  to  stifle  the  voice  both  of  law 
and  of  equity. 

These  considerations  teach  us  to  applaud  the  wisdom  of  those 
states  who  have  committed  the  judicial  power,  in  the  last  resort, 
not  to  a  part  of  the  legislature,  but  to  distinct  and  independent 
bodies  of  men.  Contrary  to  the  supposition  of  those  who  have 
represented  the  plan  of  the  convention,  in  this  respect,  as  novel 
and  unprecedented,  it  is  but  a  copy  of  the  constitutions  of  New 
Hampshire,  Massachusetts,  Pennsylvania,  Delaware,  Maryland, 
Virginia,  North  Carolina,  South  Carolina,  and  Georgia ;  and  the 
49 


403  THE  FEDERALIST. 

preference  which  has  been  given  to  these  models  is  highly  to  be 
commended. 

It  is  not  true,  in  the  second  place,  that  the  parliament  of  Great 
Britain,  or  the  legislatures  of  the  particular  states  can  rectify  the 
exceptionable  decisions  of  their  respective  courts,  in  any  other 
sense  than  might  be  done  by  a  future  legislature  of  the  United 
States.  The  theory,  neither  of  the  British,  nor  the  state  consti- 
tutions, authorizes  the  revisal  of  a  judicial  sentence  by  a  legisla- 
tive act.  Nor  is  there  any  thing  in  the  proposed  constitution  more 
than  in  either  of  them  by  wliich  it  is  forbidden.  In  the  former, 
as  in  the  latter,  the  impropriety  of  the  thing  on  the  general  prin- 
ciples of  law  and  reason,  is  the  sole  obstacle.  A  legislature,  with- 
out exceeding  its  province,  cannot  reverse  a  determination  once 
made,  in  a  particular  case  ;  though  it  may  prescribe  a  new  rule 
for  future  cases.  This  is  the  principle,  and  it  applies  in  all  its 
consequences,  exactly  in  tiie  same  manner  and  extent  to  the  state 
governments,  as  to  the  national  government  now  under  considera- 
tion. Not  the  least  difference  can  be  pointed  out  in  any  view  of 
the  subject. 

It  may  in  the  last  place  be  observed,  that  the  supposed  danger 
of  judiciary  encroachments  on  the  legislative  authority,  which  has 
been  upon  many  occasions  reiterated,  is  in  reality  a  phantom. 
Particular  misconstructions  and  contraventions  of  the  will  of  the 
legislature,  may  now  and  then  happen  ;  but  they  can  never  be  so 
extensive  as  to  amount  to  an  inconvenience,  or  in  any  sensible  de- 
gree to  affect  the  order  of  the  political  systetn.  This  may  be  in- 
ferred with  certainty,  from  the  general  nature  of  the  judicial  pow- 
er ;  from  the  objects  to  which  it  relates  ;  from  the  manner  in 
which  it  is  exercised  ;  from  its  comparative  weakness  ;  and  from 
its  total  incapacity  to  support  its  usurpations  by  force.  And  the 
inference  is  greatly  fortified  by  the  consideration  of  the  important 
constitutional  check,  which  the  power  of  instituting;  impeachments 
in  one  part  of  the  legislative  body,  and  of  determining  upon  them 
in  the  other,  would  give  to  that  body  upon  the  members  of  the  ju- 
dicial department.  This  is  alone  a  complete  security.  There 
never  can  be  danger  that  the  judges,  by  a  series  of  deliberate 
usurpations  on  the  authority  of  the  h-gislature,  would  hazard  the 
united  resentment  of  the  budy  entrusted  with  it,  while  this  body 
was  possessed  of  the  means  of  punisliing  their  presumption,  by 
degrading  them  from  their  stations.  While  this  ought  to  remove 
all  apprehensions  on  the  subject,  it  affords,  at  the  same  time,  a  co- 
gent argument  for  constituting  the  senate  a  court  for  the  trial  of 
impeachments. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  403 

Having  now  examined,  and,  I  trust,  removed,  the  objections  to 
the  distinct  and  independent  organization  of  tl.e  supreme  court,  1 
proceed  to  consider  the  propriety  of  llie  power  of  constitutiug  in- 
feriour  courts,*  and  tiie  relations  wiiich  will  subsist  between  these 
and  the  former. 

The  power  of  constituting  inferiour  courts,  is  evidently  calcu- 
lated to  obviate  the  necessity  of  having  recourse  to  the  supreme 
court  in  every  case  of  federal  cognizance.  It  is  intended  to  ena- 
ble the  national  government  to  institute  or  authorize  in  each  state 
or  district  of  the  United  States,  a  tribunal  competent  to  the  deter- 
mination of  matters  of  national  jurisdiction  within  its  limits. 

But  why,  it  is  asked,  might  not  the  same  purpose  have  been  ac- 
complished by  the  instrumentality  of  the  state  courts?     This  ad- 
mits of  difterent  answers.     Though  the  fitness  and  competency  of 
these  courts  should  be  allowed  in  the  utmost  latitude;  yet  the  sub- 
stance of  the  power  in  question   may  still   be  regarded  as  a  neces- 
sary part  of  the  plan,  if   it   were   only   to   authorize   the  national 
legislature  to  commit  to  them   the   cognizance   of   causes  arising 
out  of  the   national   constitution.      To   confer  upon   the   existing 
courts  of  the  several  states  the  power  of  determining  such  causes, 
would  perhaps  be  as  much  "  to  constitute  tribunals,"   as  to  create 
new  courts  with  the  like  power.     But  ought  not  a  more  direct  and 
explicit  provision  to  have  been  made  in  favour  of  the  state  courts'? 
There  are,  in  my  opinion,  substantial  reasons  against  such  a  pro- 
vision :  the  most  discerning  cannot  foresee,  how  far  the  prevalency 
of  a  local  spirit  may  be  found  to  disqualify  the  local  tribunals  for 
the  jurisdiction  of  national  causes;  whilst  every  man  may  discov- 
er, that  courts  constituted  like  those  of  some   of  the   states  would 
be  improper  channels  of  the  judicial  authority  of  the  union.     State 
judges,  holding  their  offices  during  pleasure,  or  from  year  to  year, 
will  be  too  little  independent  to   be  relied  upon   for  an   inflexible 
execution  of  the  national  laws.     And  if  there  was  a  necessity  for 
confiding  to  them  the  original  cognizance  of  causes  arising  under 
those   laws,  there  would  be  a  correspondent  necessity  for  leaving 
the  door  of   appeal   as  wide  as  possible.      In    proportion   to  the 
grounds  of  confidence  in,  or  distrust  of  the  subordinate  tribunals, 
ought  to  be  the  facility  or  difficulty  of  appeals.     And  well  satisfied 
as  I  am  of  the  propriety  of  the  appellate  jurisdiction,  in  the  sev- 

*  This  power  has  been  Hhsnrdly  represented  as  inieiKled  to  abolish  all  the  county  courts 
in  the  several  stales,  which  are  commonly  called  inferiour  courts.  But  the  expressions  of 
thecoiisiitulion  are, to  consiitule  "  tribunals  inferiour  to  the  supreme  court  ;"  and 
the  evident  design  of  the  provision  is,  to  enable  the  institution  of  local  courts,  subordinate 
k)  the  supreme,  either  in  stales  or  larger  districts.  It  is  ridiculous  to  imagine,  that  county 
courts  were  in  contemplation. 


404  THE  FEDERALIST. 

eral  classes  of  catisep  to  wliich  it  is  extended  by  the  plan  of  the 
convention,  I  should  consider  every  thinj;  calculated  to  g^ive,  in 
practice,  an  unrestrained  course  to  appeals,  as  a  source  of  public 
and  private  iiiconveiiieiK.e. 

I  am  not  sure,  but  that  it  will  be  found  hi&lt;Thly  expedient  and  use- 
ful, to  divide  the  United  States  into  four,  or  five,  or  half  a  dozen 
districts  ;  and  to  institute  a  federal  court  in  each  district,  in  lieu 
of  one  in  every  state.  The  judges  of  these  courts  may  hold  cir- 
cuits for  the  trial  of  causes  in  the  several  parts  of  the  respective 
districts,  .lustice  througli  them  may  be  administered  with  ease 
and  despatch  ;  and  appeals  may  be  safely  circumscribed  withia 
a  narrow  compass.  This  plan  appears  to  me,  at  present,  the  most 
eligible  of  any  that  could  be  adopted  :  and  in  order  to  it,  it  is 
necessary  that  the  power  of  constituting  inferiour  courts  should 
exist  in  the  full  extent  in  which  it  is  seen  in  the  proposed  consti- 
tution. 

These  reasons  seem  sufficient  to  satisfy  a  candid  mind,  that  the 
want  of  such  a  power  would  have  been  a  great  defect  in  the  plan. 
Let  us  now  examine,  in  what  manner  the  judicial  authority  is  to 
be  distributed  between  the  supreme  and  the  inferiour  courts  of  the 
union. 

The  supreme  court  is  to  be  invested  with  original  jurisdiction 
only  "in  cases  affecting  ambassadors,  other  public  ministers,  and 
"  consuls,  and  those  in  which  a  state  shall  be  a  party."  Pub- 
lic ministers  of  every  class  are  the  immediate  representatives  of 
their  sovereigns.  All  questions  in  which  they  are  concerned  are 
so  directly  cormected  with  the  public  peace,  that  as  well  for  the 
preservation  of  this,  as  out  of  respect  to  the  sovereignties  they 
represent,  it  is  both  expedient  and  proper,  that  such  questions 
should  be  submitted  in  the  first  instance  to  the  highest  judicatory 
in  the  nation.  Though  consuls  have  not  in  strictness  a  diplomatic 
eharacter,  yet  as  they  are  the  public  agents  of  the  nations  to  which 
they  belong,  the  same  observation  is  in  a  great  measure  applicable 
to  them.  In  cases  in  which  a  state  might  happen  to  be  a  party,  it 
would  ill  suit  its  dignity  to  be  turned  over  to  an  inferiour  tribunal. 

Though  it  may  rather  be  a  digression  from  the  immediate  sub- 
ject of  this  paper,  I  shall  take  occasion  to  mention  here  a  suppo- 
sition which  has  excited  some  alarm  upon  very  mistaken  grounds. 
It  has  been  suggested  that  an  assignment  of  the  public  securities 
of  one  state  to  the  citizens  of  another,  would  enable  them  to  pros- 
ecute that  state  in  the  federal  courts  for  the  amount  of  those  se- 
curities :  a  suggestion,  which  the  following  considerations  prove  to 
be  without  foundation. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  405 

It  is  inherent  in  the  nature  of  sovereignty,  not  to  be  amenable  to 
the  suit  of  an  individual  unthovt  its  consent.  This  is  the  general 
sense,  and  the  general  practice  of  mankind  ;  and  the  exemption, 
as  one  of  the  attributes  of  sovereignty,  is  now  etijoved  by  the  gov- 
ernment of  every  state  iu  the  union.  Unless,  therefore,  there  is  a 
surrender  of  this  immunity  in  the  plan  of  the  convention,  it  will 
remain  with  the  states,  and  the  danger  intimated  must  be  merely 
ideal.  The  circumstances  which  are  necessary  to  produce  an 
alienation  of  state  sovereignty,  were  discussed  in  considering  the 
article  of  taxation,  and  need  not  be  repeat(  d  here.  A  recurrence 
to  the  principles  there  established  will  satisfy  us,  that  there  is  no 
colour  to  pretend  that  the  state  governments  would,  by  the  adop- 
tion of  that  plan,  be  divested  of  the  privilege  of  paying  their  own 
debts  in  their  own  way,  free  from  every  constraint,  but  that  which 
flows  from  the  obligations  of  good  faith.  The  contracts  between 
a  nation  and  individuals  are  only  binding  on  the  conscience  of  the 
sovereign,  and  have  no  pretension  to  a  compulsive  force.  They 
confer  no  right  of  action,  independent  of  the  sovereign  will.  To 
what  purpose  would  it  be  to  authorize  suits  against  states  for  the 
debts  they  owe  1  How  could  recoveries  be  enforced?  It  is  evi- 
dent, that  it  could  not  be  done,  without  waging  war  against  the 
contracting  state  :  aiid  to  ascribe  to  the  federal  courts,  by  mere 
implication,  and  in  destruction  of  a  preexisting  right  of  the  state 
governments,  a  power  which  would  involve  such  a  consequence, 
would   be   altogether  forced  and  unwarrantable. 

Let  us  resume  the  train  of  our  observations.  We  have  seen, 
that  the  original  jurisdiction  of  the  supreme  court  would  be  con- 
fined to  two  classes  of  causes,  and  those  of  a  nature  rarely  to  oc- 
cur. In  all  other  cases  of  federal  cognizance,  the  original  juris- 
diction would  appertain  to  the  inferiour  tribunals  ;  and  the  supreme 
court  would  have  nothing  more  than  an  appellate  jurisdiction, 
"  with  such  exceptions,  and  under  such  regulations,  as  the  congress 
"  shall  make." 

The  propriety  of  this  appellate  jurisdiction  has  been  scarcely 
called  in  question  in  regard  to  matters  of  law  ;  but  the  clamours 
have  been  loud  against  it  as  applied  to  matters  of  fact.  Some 
well-intentioned  men  in  this  state,  deriving  their  notions  from  the 
language  and  forms  which  obtain  in  our  courts,  have  been  induced 
to  consider  it  as  an  implied  supersedure  of  the  trial  by  jury,  in  fa- 
vour of  the  civil  law  mode  of  trial,  which  prevails  in  our  courts  of 
admiralty,  probates,  and  chancery.  A  technical  sense  has  been 
affixed  to  the  term  "  appellate,"  which,  in  our  law  parlance,  is 
commonly  used  in  reference  to  appeals  in  the  course   of  the  civil 


406  THE  FEDERALIST. 

law.  But  if  I  am  not  misinformed,  the  same  meaning  would  not 
be  given  to  it  in  any  part  of  New  England.  There,  an  appeal 
from  one  jury  to  another,  is  familiar  both  in  language  and  prac- 
tice, and  is  even  a  matter  of  course,  until  there  have  been  twa 
verdicts  on  one  side.  The  word  "  appellate,"  therefore,  will  not 
be  understood  in  the  same  sense  in  New  England,  as  in  New  York, 
which  shows  the  in)proj)riety  of  a  technical  interpretation  derived 
from  the  jurisprudence  of  a  particular  state.  The  expression, 
taken  in  the  abstract,  denotes  nothing  more  than  the  power  of  one 
tribunal  to  review  the  proceedings  of  another,  either  as  to  the  law, 
or  fact,  or  both.  The  mode  of  doing  it  may  depend  on  ancient 
custom  or  legislative  provision  :  in  a  new  government  it  must  de- 
pend on  the  latter,  and  may  be  with  or  without  the  aid  of  a  jury, 
as  may  be  judged  advisable.  If,  therefore,  the  reexamination  of 
a  fact  once  determined  by  a  jury,  should  in  any  case  be  admitted 
under  the  proposed  constitution,  it  may  be  so  regulated  as  to  be 
done  by  a  second  jury,  either  by  remanding  the  cause  to  the  court 
below  for  a  second  trial  of  the  fact,  or  by  directing  an  issue  im- 
mediately out  of  the  supreme  court. 

But  it  does  not  follow  tliat  the  reexamination  of  a  fact  once  as- 
certained by  a  jury,  will  he  permitted  in  the  supreme  court.  Why 
may  it  not  be  said,  with  the  strictest  propriety,  when  a  writ  of  er- 
rour  is  brought  from  an  inferiour  to  a  superiour  court  of  law  in 
this  state,  that  the  latter  has  jurisdiction*  of  the  fact,  as  well  as 
the  law?  It  is  true  it  cannot  institute  a  new  inquiry  concerning 
the  fact,  but  it  takes  cognizance  of  it  as  it  appears  upon  the  record, 
and  pronounces  the  law  arising  upon  it.  This  is  jurisdiction  of 
both  fact  and  law ;  nor  is  it  even  possible  to  separate  them. 
Though  the  common  law  courts  of  this  state  ascertain  disputed 
facts  by  a  jury,  yet  they  unquestionably  have  jurisdiction  of  both 
fact  and  law  ;  and  accordingly,  when  the  former  is  agreed  in  the 
pleadings,  they  have  no  recourse  to  a  jury,  but  proceed  at  once  to 
judgment.  I  contend,  therefore,  on  this  ground,  that  the  expres- 
sions, "  appellate  jurisdiction,  both  as  to  law  and  fact,"  do  not 
necessarily  imply  a  reexamination  in  the  supreme  court  of  facts 
decided  by  juries  in  the  inferiour  courts^ 

The  following  train  of  ideas  may  well  be  imagined  to  have  in- 
fluenced the  convention,  in  relation  to  this  particular  provision. 
The  appellate  jurisdiction  of  the  supreme  court,  it  may  have  been 
argued,  will  extend  to  causes  determinable  in  different  modes, 
some  in  the  course  of  the  common  law,  others  in  the  course  of 
the  CIVIL  LAW.     In  the  former,  the  revision  of  the  law  only  will 

*  This  word  is  composed  of  jus  and  dictio,  juris  dictio,  or  a  speakin;  or  pronouncing 
of  the  law. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  407 

be,  generally  speaking,  the  proper  province  of  the  supreme  court ; 
in  the  latter,  the  reexamination  of  fact  is  agreeable  to  usage,  and 
in  some  cases,  of  whicli  prize  causes  are  an  example,  might  be 
essential  to  the  preservation  of  tlie  ptibhc  peace.  It  is  therefore 
necessary,  that  the  appelhite  jurisdiction  should,  in  certain  cases, 
extend  in  the  broadest  sense  to  matters  of  fact.  It  will  net  an- 
swer to  make  an  express  exception  of  cases  which  shall  have  been 
originally  tried  by  a  jury,  because  in  the  courts  of  some  of  the 
states  «// tow5C5  are  tried  in  this  mode;*  and  such  an  exception 
would  preclude  the  revision  of  matters  of  fact,  as  well  where  it 
might  be  proper,  as  where  it  might  be  improper.  To  avoid  all 
inconveniences,  it  will  be  safest  to  declare  generally,  that  the  su- 
preme court  shall  possess  appellate  jurisdiction,  both  as  to  law  and 
yacf,  and  that  this  jurisdiction  shall  be  subject  to  such  exceptions 
and  regulations  as  the  national  legislature  may  prescribe.  This 
will  enable  the  government  to  modify  it  in  such  a  manner  as  will 
best  answer  the  ends  of  public  justice  and  security. 

This  view  of  the  matter,  at  any  rate,  puts  it  out  of  all  doubt 
that  the  supposed  abolition  of  the  trial  by  jury,  by  the  opera- 
tion of  this  provision,  is  fallacious  and  untrue.  The  legislature 
of  the  United  States  would  certainly  have  full  power  to  provide, 
that  in  appeals  to  the  supreme  court  there  should  be  no  reexamin- 
ation of  facts,  where  they  had  been  tried  in  the  oric^inal  causes  by 
juries.  This  would  certainly  be  an  authorized  exception  ;  but  if, 
for  the  reason  already  intimated,  it  should  be  thought  too  exten- 
sive, it  might  be  qualified  with  a  limitation  to  such  causes  only  as 
are  determinable  at  common  law  in  that  mode  of  trial. 

The  amount  of  tlie  observations  hitherto  made  on  the  authority 
of  the  judicial  department  is  this  :  that  it  has  been  carefully  re- 
stricted to  those  causes  which  are  manifestly  proper  for  the  cog- 
nizance of  the  national  judicature  ;  that  in  the  partition  of  this 
authority,  a  \ety  small  portion  of  original  jurisdiction  has  been 
reserved  to  the  supreme  court,  and  the  rest  consio^ned  to  the  sub- 
ordinate tribunals  :  that  the  supreme  court  will  possess  an  appel- 
late jurisdiction,  both  as  to  law  and  fact,  in  all  the  cases  referred 
to  them,  but  subject  to  aiiy  exceptions  and  regulations  which  may  be 
thought  advisable  ;  that  this  appellate  jurisdiction  does,  in  no  case, 
abolish  the  trial  by  jury  ;  and  that  an  ordinary  degree  of  prudence 
and  integrity  in  the  national  councils,  will  ensure  us  solid  advan- 
tages from  the  establishment  of  the  proposed  judiciary,  without 
exposing  us  to  any  of  the  inconveniences  which  have  been  pre- 
dicted from  that  source.  PUBLIUS. 

*  I  hold  that  the  stales  will  have  concurrent  jurisdiction  with  the  subordinate  federal  ju- 
dicatories, in  many  cases  of  federal  cognizance,  as  will  be  explained  in  mj  next  paper. 


408  THE  FEDERALIST. 

NO.  LXXXII. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON 

A  further  View  of  the  Judicial  Department,  in  reference  to  some 
Miscellaneous  Questions. 

The  erection  of  a  new  government,  whatever  care  or  wisdom 
may  distinguish  the  work,  cannot  fail  to  originate  questions  of  in- 
tricacy and  nicety;  and  tliese  may,  in  a  particular  manner,  be  ex- 
pected to  flow  from  the  establishment  of  a  constitution  founded 
upon  the  total  or  partial  incorporation  of  a  number  of  distinct 
sovereignties.  Time  only  can  mature  and  perfect  so  compound  a 
system,  liquidate  the  meaning  of  all  the  parts,  and  adjust  them  to 
each  other  in  a  harmonious  and  consistent  whole. 

Such  questions  accordingly  have  arisen  upon  the  plan  proposed 
by  the  convention,  and  particularly  concerning  the  judiciary  de- 
partment. The  principal  of  these  respect  the  situation  of  the 
state  courts,  in  regard  to  those  causes  which  are  to  be  submitted 
to  federal  jurisdiction.  Is  this  to  he  exclusive,  or  are  those  courts 
to  possess  a  concurrent  jurisdiction  ?  If  the  latter,  in  what  rela- 
tion will  they  stand  to  the  national  tribunals  ?  These  are  inquiries 
which  we  meet  with  in  the  moutlis  of  men  of  sense,  and  which 
are  certainly  entitled  to  attention. 

The  principles  established  in  a  former  paper*  teach  us,  that  the 
states  will  retain  all  preexisting  authorities  which  may  not  be  ex- 
clusively delegated  to  the  federal  head;  and  that  this  exclusive 
delegation  can  only  exist  in  one  of  three  cases  ;  where  an  exclu- 
sive authority  is,  in  express  terms,  granted  to  the  union  ;  or  where 
a  particular  authority  is  granted  to  the  union,  and  the  exercise  of 
a  like  authority  is  prohibited  to  the  states  ;  or  where  an  authority 
is  granted  to  the  union,  with  which  a  similar  authority  in  the  states 
would  be  utterly  incompatible.  Though  these  principles  may  not 
apply  with  the  same  force  to  the  judiciary,  as  to  the  legislative 
power;  yet  I  am  inclined  to  think,  that  they  are,  in  the  main,  just 
with  respect  to  the  former,  as  well  as  the  latter.  And  under  this 
impression  I  shall  lay  it  down  as  a  rule,  that  the  state  courts  will 
retain  the  jurisdiction  they  now  have,  unless  it  appears  to  be  taken 
away  in  one  of  the  enumerated  modes. 

The  only  thing  in  the  proposed  constitution,  which  wears  the 
appearance  of  confining  the  causes  of  federal  cognizance  to  the 
federal  courts,  is  contained  in  this  passage:  "The  judicial  how- 
"  ER  of  the  United  States  shall  be  vested  in  one  supreme  court,  and 
'*  in  such  inferiour  courts  as  the  congress  shall  from  time  to  time 

*  No.  XXXII. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  409 

"  ordain  and  establish."  This  might  either  be  construed  to  signi- 
fy, that  the  supreme  and  subordinate  courts  of  the  union  should 
alone  have  the  power  of  deciding  those  causes,  to  whicli  their  au- 
thority is  to  extend ;  or  simply  to  denote,  that  the  organs  of  the 
national  judiciary  should  be  one  supreme  court,  and  as  many  sub- 
ordinate courts,  as  congress  should  thiok  proper  to  appoint;  in 
other  words,  that  the  United  States  should  exercise  the  judicial 
power  with  which  they  are  to  be  invested,  through  one  supreme 
tribunal,  and  a  certain  number  of  inferi'&gt;ur  ones,  to  be  instituted 
by  them.  The  first  excludes,  the  last  admits,  the  concurrent  ju- 
risdiction of  the  state  tribunals;  and  as  the  first  would  amount  to 
an  alienation  of  state  power  by  implication,  the  last  appears  to 
me  the  most  defensible  construction. 

But  this  doctrine  of  concurrent  jurisdiction,  is  only   clearly  ap- 
plicable to  those  descriptions  of  causes,  of  which  the   state  courts 
have  previous  cognizance.     It  is  not  equally  evident  in  relation  to 
cases  which  may  grow  out  of,  and  be  peculiar  to,  the  consiitution 
to  be  established  :  for  not  to  allow  the  state  courts  a  right   of  ju- 
risdiction in  such  cases,  can  hardly  be   considered   as  the   abridg- 
ment of  a  preexisting  authority.     I  mean  not  therefore  to  contend, 
that  the  United  States,  in  the  course   of   legislation   upon  the  ob- 
jects entrusted  to  their  direction,  may  not  commit   the  dicision   of 
causes  arising  upon  a  particular  regulation,  to    the   federal   courts 
solely,  if  such  a  measure  should  be  deemed  expedient :    but  I  hold 
that  the  state  courts  will  be  divested  of  no  part  of   their   primitive 
jurisdiction,  further  than  may  relate  to  an  appeal;  and  I  am  even 
of  opinion,  that  in  every  case  in   which  they    were    not   expressly 
excluded  by  the  future  acts  of  the    national   legislature,  they  will 
of  course  take  cognizance  of  the  causes  to  which  those   acts   may 
give  birth.     Ti)is  I  infer  from  the  nature  of  judiciary   power,  and 
from  the  general  genius  of  the  system.     The  judiciary   power  of 
every  government  looks  beyond  its  own  local  or  municipal    laws, 
and  in  civil  cases  lays  hold  of    all  subjects   of   litigation   between 
parties  within  its  jurisdiction,  though   the  causes   of   dispute  are 
relative  to  the  laws  of  the  most  distant  part  of  the  globe.      Those 
of  Japan,  not  less  than  of  New  York,  may  furnish  the  objects   of 
legal  discussion  to  our  courts.     When  in  addition  to  this   we   con- 
sider   the   state   governments    and  the   national    government,    as 
they  truly  are,  in  the  liglit   of   kindred  systems,   and   as  parts   of 
ONE  WHOLE,  the  inference  seems  to    be  conclusive,  that  the  state 
courts  would  have  a    concurrent  jurisdiction  in   all    cases   arising 
under  the  laws  of  the  union,  where  it  was  not  expressly  prohibited. 
Here,  another  question  occurs :  what  relation  would  subsist  bc- 
50 


410  THE  FEDERALIST. 

tween  the  national  and  state  courts  in  these  instances  of  concur- 
rent jurisdiction  ?  I  answer,  that  an  appeal  would  certainly  lie 
from  the  latter,  to  the  supreme  court  of  the  United  States.  The 
constitution  in  direct  terms  gives  an  appellate  jurisdiction  to  the 
supreme  court  in  all  the  enumerated  cases  of  federal  cognizance, 
in  which  it  is  not  to  have  an  original  one,  without  a  single  expres- 
sion to  confine  its  operation  to  the  iuferiour  federal  courts.  The 
objects  of  appeal,  not  the  tribunals  from  which  it  is  to  be  made, 
are  alone  contemplated.  From  tliis  circumstance,  and  from  the 
reason  of  the  thing,  it  ought  to  be  construed  to  extend  to  the  state 
tribunals.  Either  this  must  be  the  case,  or  the  local  courts  must 
be  excluded  from  a  concurrent  jurisdiction  in  matters  of  national 
concern,  else  the  judiciary  authority  of  the  union  may  be  eluded  at 
the  pleasure  of  every  plaintiff  or  prosecutor.  Neither  of  these 
consequences  ought,  without  evident  necessity,  to  be  involved ; 
the  latter  would  be  entirely  inadmissible,  as  it  would  defeat  some 
of  the  most  important  and  avowed  purposes  of  the  proposed  gov- 
ernment, and  would  essentially  embarrass  its  measures.  Nor  do 
I  perceive  any  foundation  for  such  a  supposition.  Agreeably  to 
the  remark  already  made,  the  national  and  state  systems  are  to 
be  regarded  as  one  whole.  The  courts  of  the  latter  will  of  course 
be  natural  auxiliaries  to  the  execution  of  the  laws  of  the  union, 
and  an  appeal  from  them  will  as  naturally  lie  to  that  tribunal, 
which  is  destined  to  unite  and  assimilate  the  principles  of  national 
justice  and  the  rules  of  national  decision.  The  evident  aim  of 
the  plan  of  the  convention  is,  that  all  the  causes  of  the  specified 
classes  shall,  for  weighty  public  reasons,  receive  their  original  or 
final  determination  in  the  courts  of  the  union.  To  confine,  there- 
fore, the  general  ex[)ressions  which  give  ap[)ellate  jurisdiction  to 
the  supreme  court,  to  appeals  from  the  subordinate  federal  courts, 
instead  of  allowing  their  extension  to  the  state  courts,  would  be 
to  abridge  the  latitude  of  the  terms,  in  subversion  of  the  intent, 
contrary  to  every  sound  rule  of  interpretation. 

But  could  an  appeal  be  made  to  lie  from  the  state  courts,  to  the 
subordinate  federal  judicatories?  This  is  another  of  the  ques- 
tions which  have  been  raised,  and  of  greater  difficulty  than  the 
former.  The  following  considerations  countenance  the  affirma- 
tive. The  plan  of  the  convention,  in  the  first  place,  authorizes 
the  natimial  legislature  "  to  constitute  tribunals  inferiour  to  the 
"supreme  court."*  ll  declares,  in  the  next  place,  that  "  the  judi- 
"  ciAL  POWER  of  the  United  States  shall  be  vested  in  one  supreme 
"  court,  and  in  such  iuferiour  courts  as  congress  shall  ordain  and 

*  Section  8lh,  article  1st. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  411 

"  establish  ;"  and  it  then  proceeds  to  enumerate  the  cases,  to  which 

this  judicial  power  shall  extend.  It  afteiwards  divides  the  juris- 
diction of  the  supreme  court  into  original  and  appellate,  but  gives 
no  definition  of  that  of  the  subordinate  courts.  The  only  outlines 
described  for  them  are  that  they  shall  be  "  inferiour  to  the  supreme 
"  court,"  and  that  they  shall  not  exceed  the  specified  limits  of  the 
federal  judiciary.  Whether  their  authority  shall  be  original  or 
appellate,  or  both,  is  not  declared.  All  this  seems  to  be  left  to 
the  discretion  of  the  legislature.  And  this  being  the  case,  I  per- 
ceive at  present  no  impediment  \o  the  establishment  of  an  appeal 
from  the  state  courts,  to  the  subordinate  national  tribunals  ;  and 
many  advantages  attending  the  power  of  doing  it  n)ay  be  imagin- 
ed. It  would  diminish  the  motives  to  the  multiplication  of  federal 
courts,  and  would  admit  of  arrangements  calculated  to  contract 
the  appellate  jurisdiction  of  the  supreme  court.  The  state  tribu- 
nals may  then  be  left  with  a  more  entire  charge  of  federal  causes ; 
and  appeals,  in  most  cases  in  which  they  may  be  deemed  proper, 
instead  of  being  carried  to  the  supreme  court,  may  be  made  to  lie 
from  the  state  courts  to  district  courts  of  the  union. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXXXIII. 

By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

A  further  View  of  the  Judicial  Department,  in  relation  to  the  Trial 

by  Jury. 

The  objection  to  the  plan  of  the  convention,  which  has  met 
with  most  success  in  this  state,  is  relative  to  the  want  of  a  constitU' 
tional provision  for  the  trial  by  jury  in  civil  cases.  The  disingenu- 
ous form  in  which  this  objection  is  usually  stated,  has  been  re- 
peatedly adverted  to  and  exposed  ;  but  continues  to  be  pursued  ia 
all  the  conversations  and  writings  of  the  opponents  of  the  plan. 
The  mere  silence  of  the  constitution  in  regard  to  civil  causes,  is 
represented  as  an  abolition  of  the  trial  by  jury  ;  and  the  declama- 
tions to  which  it  has  afforded  a  pretext  are  artfully  calculated  to 
induce  a  persuasion,  that  this  pretended  abolition  is  complete  and 
universal ;  extending  not  only  to  every  species  of  civil,  but  even 
to  criminal  causes.  To  argue  with  respect  to  the  latter,  would  be 
as  vain  and  fruitless,  as  to  attempt  to  demonstrate  any  of  thoge 
propositions,  which,  by  their  own  internal  evidence,  force  con- 
viction, when  expressed  in  language  adapted  to  convey  their  mean- 
ing. 


412  THE  FEDERALIST. 

With  regard  to  civil  causes,  subtleties  almost  too  contemptible 
for  refutation  have  been  employed  to  countenance  the  surmise  that 
a  thing,  which  is  only  not  provided  for,  is  entirely  abolished.  Eve- 
ry man  of  discernment  must  at  once  perceive  the  wide  difierence 
between  silence  and  abolition.  But  as  the  inventors  of  this  fallacy 
have  attempted  to  support  it  by  certain  legal  maxims  of  interpreta- 
tion, which  they  have  perverted  from  their  true  meaning,  it  may  not 
be  wholly  useless  to  explore  the  ground  they  have  taken. 

The  maxims  on  which  they  rely  are  of  this  nature :  "  A  speci- 
♦' fication  of  particulars  is  an  exclusion  of  generals;"  or,  "The 
•'expression  of  one  thing  is  the  exclusion  of  another."  Hence, 
say  they,  as  the  constitution  has  established  the  trial  by  jury,  in 
criminal  cases,  and  is  silent  in  respect  to  civil,  this  silence  is  an 
implied  prohibition  of  trial  by  jury,  in  regard  to  the  latter. 

The  rules  of  legal  interpretation  are  rules  of  co))i?iion  sense,  adopt- 
ed by  the  courts  in  the  construction  of  the  laws.  The  true  test, 
therefore,  of  a  just  application  of  them,  is  its  conformity  to  the 
source  from  which  they  are  derived.  This  being  the  case,  let  me 
ask,  if  it  is  consistent  with  common  sense  to  supj)Ose,  that  a  pro- 
vision obliging  the  legislative  power  to  commit  the  trial  of  criminal 
causes  to  juries,  is  a  privation  of  its  right  to  authorize  or  permit 
that  mode  of  trial  in  other  cases  ?  Is  it  natural  to  suppose,  that  a 
command  to  do  one  thing  is  a  prohibition  to  the  doing  of  another, 
which  there  was  a  previous  power  to  do,  and  which  is  not  incom- 
patible with  the  thing  commanded  to  be  done  ?  If  such  a  supposi- 
tion would  be  unnatural  and  unreasonable,  it  cannot  be  rational 
to  maintain,  that  an  injunction  of  the  trial  by  jury,  in  certain 
cases,  is  an  interdiction  of  it  in  others. 

A  power  to  constitute  courts  is  a  power  to  prescribe  the  mode 
of  trial  ;  and  consequently,  if  nothing  was  said  in  the  constitu- 
tion on  the  subject  of  juries,  the  legislature  woidd  be  at  liberty, 
either  to  adopt  that  institution,  or  to  let  it  alone.  This  discretion, 
in  regard  to  criminal  causes,  is  abridged  by  an  express  injunction  ; 
but  it  is  left  ot  large  in  relation  to  civil  causes,  for  the  very  reason 
that  there  is  a  total  silence  on  the  subject.  The  specification  of 
an  obligation  to  try  all  criminal  causes  in  a  particular  mode,  ex- 
cludes indeed  the  obligation  of  employing  the  same  mode  in  civil 
causes,  but  does  not  abridge  the  power  of  the  legislature  to  appoint 
that  mode,  if  it  should  be  thought  proper.  The  pretence,  there- 
fore, that  the  national  legislature  would  not  be  at  liberty  to  sub- 
mit all  the  civil  causes  of  federal  cognizance  to  the  determination 
of  juries,  is  a  pretence  destitute  of  all  foundation. 

From  these  observations,  this  conclusion  results,  that  the  trial 


THE  FEDERALIST.  413 

bj  jury  in  civil  cases  would  not  be  abolisbed  ;  and  that  the  use 
attempted  to  be  made  of  the  maxims  which  have  been  quoted,  is 
contrary  to  reason,  and  thtrefore  inadmissible.  Even  if  these 
maxims  had  a  precise  technical  sense,  corresponding  with  the 
ideas  of  those  who  employ  them  upon  the  present  occasion,  which, 
however,  is  not  the  case,  they  would  still  be  inapplicable  to  a  con- 
stitution of  government.  In  relation  to  such  a  subject,  the  nat- 
ural and  obvious  sense  of  its  provisions,  apart  from  any  technical 
rules,  is  the  true  criterion  of  construction. 

Having  now  seen  that  the  maxims  relied  upon  will  not  bear  the 
use  made  of  them,  let  us  endeavour  to  ascertain  their  proper  ap- 
plication. This  will  be  best  done  by  examples.  The  plan  of  the 
convention  declares,  that  the  power  of  congress,  or,  in  other  words, 
of  the  national  legislature,  shall  extend  to  certain  enumerated 
cases.  This  specification  of  particulars  evidently  excludes  all 
pretension  to  a  general  legislative  authority  ;  because  an  affirma- 
tive grant  of  special  powers  would  be  absurd,  as  well  as  useless, 
if  a  general  authority  was  intended. 

In  like  manner,  the  authority  of  the  federal  judicatures  is  de- 
clared by  the  constitution  to  comprehend  certain  cases  particularly 
specified.  The  expression  of  those  cases  marks  the  precise  lim- 
its, beyond  which  the  federal  courts  cannot  extend  their  jurisdic- 
tion ;  because  the  objects  of  their  cognizance  being  enumerated, 
the  specification  would  be  nugatory,  if  it  did  not  exclude  all  ideas 
of  more  extensive  authority. 

These  examples  are  sufficient  to  elucidate  the  maxims  which 
have  been  mentioned,  and  to  designate  the  manner  in  which  they 
should  be  used. 

From  what  has  been  said,  it  must  appear  unquestionably  true, 
that  trial  by  jury  is  in  no  case  abolished  by  the  proposed  constitu- 
tion ;  and  it  is  equally  true,  that  in  those  controversies  between 
individuals,  in  which  the  great  body  of  the  people  are  likely  to  be 
interested,  that  institution  will  remain  precisely  in  the  situation  in 
which  it  is  placed  by  the  state  constitutions.  The  foundation  of 
this  assertion  is,  that  the  national  judiciary  will  have  no  cogniz- 
ance of  them,  and  of  course  they  will  remain  determinable  as 
heretofore  by  the  state  courts  only,  and  in  the  manner  which  the 
state  constitutions  and  laws  prescribe.  All  land  causes,  except 
where  claims  under  the  grants  of  different  states  come  into  ques- 
tion, and  all  other  controversies  between  the  citizens  of  the  same 
state,  unless  where  they  depend  upon  positive  violations  of  the 
articles  of  union,  by  acts  of  the  state  legislatures,  will  belong  ex- 
clusively to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  state  tribunals.     Add  to  this, 


414  THE  FEDERALIST. 

that  admiralty  causes,  and  almost  all  those  which  are  of  equity 
jurisdiction,  are  determinahle  under  our  own  government  without 
the  intervention  of  a  jury;  and  the  inference  from  the  whole  will 
be,  tliat  this  institution,  as  it  exists  with  us  at  present,  cannot  pos- 
sibly be  affected,  to  any  great  extent,  by  the  proposed  alteration 
in  our  system  of  government. 

The  friends  and  adversaries  of  the  plan  of  the  convention,  if 
they  agree  in  nothing  else,  concur  at  least  in  the  value  they  set 
upon  the  trial  by  jury  ;  or  if  there  is  any  difference  between  them, 
it  consists  in  this  :  the  former  regard  it  as  a  valuable  safeguard  to 
liberty,  the  latter  represent  it  as  the  very  palladium  of  free  gov- 
ernment. For  my  own  part,  the  more  the  operation  of  the  insti- 
tution has  fallen  under  my  observation,  the  nifire  reason  I  have 
discovered  for  holding  it  in  high  estimation  ;  and  it  would  be  alto- 
gether superfluous  to  examine  to  what  extent  it  deserves  to  be  es- 
teemed useful  or  essential  in  a  representative  republic,  or  how 
much  more  merit  it  may  be  entitled  to,  as  a  defence  against  the 
oppressions  of  an  hereditary  monarch,  than  as  a  barrier  to  the 
tyranny  of  popular  magistrates  in  a  popular  government.  Discus- 
sions of  this  kind  would  be  more  curious  than  beneficial,  as  all  are 
satisfied  of  the  utility  of  the  institution,  and  of  its  friendly  aspect 
to  liberty.  But  I  must  acknowledge,  that  I  cannot  readily  discern 
the  inseparable  connexion  between  the  existence  of  liberty,  and 
the  trial  by  jury  in  civil  cases.  Arbitrary  impeachments,  arbitra- 
ry methods  of  prosecuting  pretended  offences,  arbitrary  punish- 
ments upon  arbitrary  convictions,  have  ever  appeared  to  me  the 
great  engines  of  judicial  despotism  ;  and  all  these  have  relation 
to  criminal  proceedings.  The  trial  by  jury  in  criminal  cases,  aid- 
ed by  the  habeas  corpus  act,  seems  therefore  to  be  alone  concerned 
in  the  question.  And  both  of  these  are  provided  for,  in  the  most 
ample  manner,  in  the  plan  of  the  convention. 

It  has  been  observed,  that  trial  by  jury  is  a  safeguard  against 
an  oppressive  exercise  of  the  power  of  taxation.  This  observation 
deserves  to  be  canvassed. 

It  is  evident  that  it  can  have  no  influence  upon  the  legislature, 
in  regard  to  the  amount  of  the  taxes  to  be  laid,  to  the  objects  upon 
•which  they  are  to  be  imposed,  or  to  the  rule  by  which  they  are  to 
be  apportioned.  If  it  can  have  any  influence,  therefore,  it  must 
be  upon  the  mode  of  collection,  and  the  conduct  of  the  officers 
entrusted  with  the  execution  of  the  revenue  laws. 

As  to  the  mode  of  collection  in  this  state,  under  our  own  con- 
stitution, the  trial  by  jury  is  in  most  cases  out  of  use.  The  taxes 
are  usually  levied  by  the  more  summary  proceeding  of  distress 


THE  FEDERALIST.  415 

and  sale,  as  in  cases  of  rent.  And  it  is  acknowledged  on  all 
hands,  that  this  is  essential  to  the  efficacy  of  the  revenue  laws. 
The  dilatory  course  of  a  trial  at  law  to  recover  the  taxes  imposed 
on  individuals,  would  neither  suit  the  exigencies  of  the  public,  nor 
promote  the  convenience  of  the  citizens.  It  would  often  occasion 
an  accumulation  of  costs,  more  burthensome  than  the  original 
sum  of  the  tax  to  be  levied. 

And  as  to  the  conduct  of  the  officers  of  the  revenue,  the  provis- 
ion in  favour  of  trial  by  jury  in  criminal  cases,  will  afford  the  de- 
sired security.  Wilful  abuses  of  a  public  authority,  to  the  oppres- 
sion of  the  subject,  and  every  species  of  official  extortion,  are  of- 
fences against  the  government ;  for  which  the  persons  who  com- 
mit them,  may  be  indicted  and  punished  according  to  the  circum- 
stances of  the  case. 

The  excellence  of  the  trial  by  jury  in  civil   cases,  appears,    to 
depend  on  circumstances  foreign  to  the  preservation   of   liberty. 
The  strongest  argument  in  its  favour  is,  that  it  is  a  security  against 
corruption.     As  there  is  jjilways  more  time,  and   better  oppt)rluni- 
ty,  to  tamper  with  a  standing  body   of   magistrates,   than   with   a 
jury  summoned  for  the  occasion,  there  is  room  to  suppose,   that   a 
corrupt  influence  would  more  easily   find   its  way   to   the   former 
than  to  the  latter.     The  force  of   this   consideration   is,   however, 
diminished  by  others.     The  sheriff,  who  is  the  summoner  of  ordi- 
nary juries,  and  the  clerks  of  courts,  who  have  the  nomination   of 
special  juries,  are  themselves  standing   officers,   and,   acting  indi- 
vidually, may  be  supposed  more  accessible  to  the  touch  of  corrup- 
tion than  the  judges,  who  are  a  collective  body.     It  is  not  difficult 
to  see,  that  it  would  be  in  the  power  of  those  officers  to  select  ju- 
rors, who  would  serve  the  purpose  of  the  party,  as  well   as   a   cor- 
rupted bench.     In  the  next  place,  it  may  fairly  be   supposed,   that 
there  would  be  less  difficulty  in  gaining   some   of  the  jurors  pro- 
miscuously taken  from  the  public  mass,  than  in   gaining  men  who 
had  been  chosen  by  the   government  for  their  probity  and   good 
character.     But  making  every  deduction  for  these   considerations, 
the  trial  by  jury  must  still  be  a  valuable  check  upon   corruption. 
It  greatly  multiplies  the  impediments  to  its    success.      As   matters 
now  stand,  it  would  be  necessary  to  corrupt   both  court  and  jury; 
for  where  the  jury  have  gone  evidently  wrong,  the  court  will   gen- 
erally  grant  a  new  trial,  and  it  would  be  in    most   cases   of   little 
use   to   pratice  upon  the  jury,  unless  the  court   could   be   likewise 
gained.     Here  then,  is  a  double  security  ;  and   it  will    readily   be 
perceived,  that  this    complicated  agency  tends  to  preserve  the  pu- 
rity of  both  institutions.     By  increasing  the  obstacles  to  success, 


416  THE  FEDERALIST. 

it  discourages  attempts  to  seduce  the  integrity  of  either.  The 
temptations  to  prostitution,  which  the  judges  might  have  to  sur- 
mount, must  certainly  be  much  fewer,  while  the  cooperation  of  a 
jury  is  necessary,  than  they  might  be,  if  they  had  themselves  the 
exclusive  determination  of  all  causes. 

Notwithstanding,  therefore,  the  doubts  I  have  expressed,  as  to 
the  essentiality  of  trial  by  jury  in  civil  suits  to  liberty,  I  admit  that 
it  is  in  most  cases,  under  proper  regulations,  an  excellent  method 
of  determining  questions  of  j)roperty ;  and  that  on  this  account 
alone,  it  would  be  entitled  to  a  constitutional  provision  in  its  fa- 
vour, if  it  were  possible  to  fix  with  accuracy  the  limits  within 
which  it  ought  to  be  comprehended.  This,  however,  is  in  its  own 
nature  an  affair  of  much  difficulty  ;  and  men  not  blinded  by  en- 
thusiasm, must  be  sensible,  that  in  a  federal  government,  which  is 
a  composition  of  societies  whose  ideas  and  institutions  in  relation 
to  the  matter,  materially  vary  from  each  other,  the  difficulty  must 
be  not  a  little  augmented.  For  my  own  part,  at  every  new  view  I 
take  of  the  subject,  I  become  more  convinced  of  the  reality  of  the 
obstacles,  which  we  are  authoritatively  informed,  prevented  the 
insertion  of  a  provision  on  this  head  in  the  plan  of  the  conven- 
tion. 

The  great  difference  between  the  limits  of  the  jury  trial  in  dif- 
ferent states,  is  not  generally  understood.  And  as  it  must  have 
considerable  influence  on  the  sentence  we  ought  to  pass  upon  the 
omission  complained  of,  in  regard  to  this  point,  an  explanation  of 
it  is  necessary.  In  this  state,  our  judicial  establishments  resemble 
more  nearly,  than  in  any  other,  those  of  Great  Britain.  We  have 
courts  of  common  law,  courts  of  probates,  (analogous  in  certain 
matters  to  the  spiritual  courts  in  England,)  a  court  of  admiralty, 
and  a  court  of  chancery.  In  the  courts  of  common  law  only,  the 
trial  by  jury  prevails,  and  this  with  some  exceptions.  In  all  the 
others,  a  single  judge  presides,  and  proceeds,  in  general,  either  ac- 
cording to  the  course  of  the  canon  or  civil  law,  without  the  aid  of 
a  jury.*  In  New  Jersey  there  is  a  court  of  chancery  which  pro- 
ceeds like  ours,  but  neither  courts  of  admiralty,  nor  of  probates, 
in  the  sense  in  which  these  last  are  established  with  us.  In  that 
state,  the  courts  of  common  law  have  the  cognizance  of  those 
causes,  which  with  us  are  determinable  in  the  courts  of  admiralty 
and  of  probates,  and  of  course  the  jury  trial  is  more  extensive  in 
New  Jersey,  than  in  New  York.     In  Pennsylvania,  this  is  perhaps 

*  It  has  been  erroneously  insinuated,  with  regard  to  the  courl  of  chancery,  that  this  court 
generally  tries  disputed  facts  by  a  jury.  The  truth  is,  that  references  to  a  jury  in  that 
courl  rarely  hippen,  and  are  in  bo  case  necessary  but  where  the  validity  of  a  devise  of 
land  comes  in  question. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  417 

still  more  the  case,  for  there  is  no  court  of  chancery  in  that  state, 
and  its  common  law  courts  have  equity  jurisdictit)ri.  It  has  a  court 
of  admiralty,  but  none  of  probates,  at  least  on  the  plan  of  ours. 
Delaware  has  in  these  respects  imitated  Pennsylvania.  Mary- 
land approaches  more  nearly  to  New  York,  as  does  also  Virginia, 
except  tliat  the  latter  has  a  plurality  of  chancellors.  North  Caro- 
lina bears  most  affinity  to  Pennsylvania;  South  Carolina  to  Vir- 
ginia. 1  believe,  however,  that  in  some  of  those  states  which  have 
distinct  courts  of  admiralty,  the  causes  depending  in  them  are 
triable  by  juries.  In  Georgia  there  are  none  but  common  law 
coarts,  and  an  appeal  of  course  lies  from  the  verdict  of  one  jury 
to  another,  which  is  called  a  special  jury,  and  for  which  a  particu- 
lar mode  of  appointment  is  marked  out.  In  Connecticut  they 
have  no  distinct  courts,  either  of  chancery  or  of  admiralty,  and 
their  courts  of  probates  have  no  jurisdiction  of  causes.  Their 
common  law  courts  have  admiralty,  and,  to  a  certain  extent,  equi- 
ty jurisdiction.  In  cases  of  importance,  their  general  assembly  is 
the  only  court  of  chancery.  In  Connecticut,  therefore,  the  trial 
by  jury  extends  in  practice  further  than  in  any  other  state  yet  men- 
tioned. Rhode  Island  is,  I  believe,  in  this  particular,  pretty  much 
in  the  situation  of  Connecticut.  Massachusetts  and  New  Han  p- 
shire,  in  regard  to  the  blending  of  law,  equity,  and  admiralty  ju- 
risdictions, are  in  a  similar  predicament.  In  the  four  eastern 
states,  the  trial  by  jury  not  only  stands  upon  a  broader  foundation 
than  in  the  other  states,  but  it  is  attended  with  a  peculiarity  un- 
known, in  its  full  extent,  to  any  of  them.  There  is  an  appeal  of 
coarse  from  one  jury  to  anotljer,  till  thei-e  have  been  two  verdicts 
out  of  three  on  one  side. 

From  this  sketch  it  appears,  that  there  is  a  material  diversity, 
as  well  in  the  modification  as  in  the  extent  of  the  institution  of 
trial  by  jury  in  civil  cases,  in  the  several  states;  and  from  this 
fact,  these  obvious  reflections  flow:  first,  that  no  general  rule  could 
have  been  fixed  upon  by  the  convention,  which  would  have  cor- 
responded with  the  circumstances  of  all  the  states  ;  and,  secondly, 
that  more,  or  at  least  as  much  might  have  been  hazarded,  by  tak- 
ing the  system  of  any  one  state  for  a  standard,  as  by  omitting  a 
provision  altogether,  and  leaving  the  matter  as  has  been  done  to 
legislative  regulation. 

The  propositions  which  have  befen  made  for  supplying  the  omis- 
sion, have  rather  served  to  illustrate,  than  to  obviate  the  diflicultj 
of  the  thing.  The  minority  of  Pennsylvania  have  proposed  this 
mode  of  expression  for  the  purpose,  "  Trial  by  jury  shall  be  as 
"  heretofore ;"  and  this  I  maintain  would  be  inapplicable  and  inde- 
51 


418  THE  FEDERALIST. 

terminate.  The  United  States,  in  their  collective  capacity,  are  the 
OBJECT  to  which  all  general  provisions  in  the  constitution  must  be 
understood  to  refer.  Now,  it  is  evident,  that  though  trial  by  jury, 
with  various  limitations,  is  known  in  each  state  individually,  yet  in 
the  United  States,  as  such,  it  is,  strictly  speaking,  unknown  ;  be- 
cause the  present  federal  government  has  no  judiciary  power  what- 
ever ;  and  consequently,  there  is  no  antecedent  establishment,  to 
which  the  term  "  heretofore"  could  properly  relate.  It  would 
therefore  be  destitute  of  precise  meaning,  and  inoperative  from 
its  unpertaiuty. 

As  on  the  one  hand,  the  form  of  the  provision  would  not  fulfil  the 
intent  of  its  proposers  ;  so  on  the  other,  if  I  apprehend  that  intent 
rightly,  it  would  be  in  itself  inexpedient.  I  presume  it  to  be,  that 
causes  in  the  federal  courts  should  be  tried  by  jury,  if  in  the  state 
where  the  courts  sat,  that  mode  of  trial  would  obtain  in  a  similar 
case  in  the  state  courts... .that  is  to  say,  admiralty  causes  should  be 
tried  in  Connecticut  by  a  jury,  in  New  York  without  one.  The  ca- 
pricious operation  of  so  dissimilar  a  method  of  trial  in  the  same 
cases,  under  the  same  government,  is  of  itself  sufficient  to  indis- 
pose every  well-reguhited  judgment  towards  it.  Whether  the 
cause  should  be  tried  with  or  without  a  jury,  would  depend,  in  a 
great  number  of  cases,  on  the  accidental  situation  of  the  court 
and  parties. 

But  this  is  not,  in  ray  estimation,  the  greatest  objection.  I  feel  a 
deep  and  deliberate  conviction,  that  there  are  many  cases  in  which 
the  trial  by  jury  is  an  ineligible  one.  I  think  it  so  particularly,  in 
suits  which  concern  the  public  peace  with  foreign  nations ;  that  is, 
in  most  cases  where  the  question  turns  wholly  on  the  laws  of  na- 
tions. Of  this  nature,  among  others,  are  all  prize  causes.  Juries 
cannot  be  supposed  competent  to  investigations,  that  require  a 
thorough  knowledge  of  the  laws  and  usages  of  nations  ;  and  they 
will  sometimes  be  under  the  influence  of  impressions  which  will 
not  suffer  them  to  pay  sufficient  regard  to  those  considerations  of 
public  policy,  which  ought  to  guide  their  inquiries.  There  would 
of  course  be  always  danger,  that  the  rights  of  other  nations  might 
be  infringed  by  their  decisions,  so  as  to  afford  occasions  of  repri- 
sal and  war.  Thovigb  the  true  province  of  juries  be  to  determine 
matters  of  fact,  yet  in  most  cases,  legal  consequences  are  compli- 
cated with  fact  in  such  a  manner,  as  to  render  a  separation  im- 
practicable. 

It  will  add  great  weight  to  this  remark,  in  relation  to  prize 
causes,  to  mention,  that  the  melhf)d  of  determining  them  has  been 
thought  worthy  of  particular  regulation  in  various  treaties  between 


THE  FEDERALIST.  419 

different  powers  of  Europe,  and  that  pursuant  to  «uch  treaties, 
they  are  determinable  in  Great  Britain  in  the  last  resort  before 
the  king  liiniself  in  his  privy  council,  where  ti)e  fact,  as  well  as 
the  law,  undergoes  a  reexamination.  This  alone  demonstrates 
the  impolicy  of  inserting  a  fundamental  provision  in  the  constitu- 
tion which  would  make  the  state  systems  a  standard  for  the  na- 
tional government  in  the  article  under  consideration,  and  the  dan- 
ger of  encumbering  the  government  with  any  constitutional  pro- 
visions, the  propriety  of  which  is  not  indisputable. 

My  convictions  are  equally  strong,  that  great  advantages  result 
from  the  separation  of  the  equity  tVom  the  law  jurisdiction  ;  and 
that  the  causes  which  belong  to  the  former,  would  be  improperly 
committed  to  juries.  The  great  and  priniaiy  use  of  a  court  of 
equity,  is  to  give  relief  in  extraordinary  cases,  which  are  exceptions* 
to  general  rules.  To  unite  the  jurisdiction  of  such  cases,  with  the 
ordinary  jurisdiction,  must  have  a  tendency  to  unsettle  the  general 
rules,  and  to  subject  every  case  that  arises  to  a  special  determina- 
tion :  while  a  separation  between  the  jurisdictions  has  the  contrary 
effect  of  rendering  one  a  sentinel  over  the  other,  and  of  keeping 
each  within  the  expedient  limits.  Besides  this,  the  circumstances 
that  constitute  cases  proper  for  courts  of  equity,  are  in  many  in- 
stances so  nice  and  intricate,  that  they  are  incompatible  with  the 
genius  of  trials  by  jury.  They  require  often  such  long  and  criti- 
cal investigation,  as  would  be  impracticable  to  men  called  occa- 
sionally from  their  occupations,  and  obliged  to  decide  before  they 
were  permitted  to  return  to  them.  The  simplicity  and  expedition 
which  form  the  distinguishing  characters  of  this  mode  of  trial  re- 
quire, that  the  matter  to  be  decided  should  be  reduced  to  some 
single  and  obvious  point ;  while  the  litigations  usual  in  chancery, 
frequently  comprehend  a  long  train  of  minute  and  independent 
particulars. 

It  is  true,  that  the  separation  of  the  equity  from  the  legal  juris- 
diction, is  peculiar  to  the  English  system  of  jurisprudence ;  the 
model  which  has  been  followed  in  several  of  the  states.  But  it  is 
equally  true,  that  the  trial  by  jury  has  been  unknown  in  every  in- 
stance in  which  they  have  been  united.  And  the  separation  is  es- 
sential to  the  preservation  of  that  institution  in  its  pristine  purity. 
The  nature  of  a  court  of  equity  will  readily  permit  the  extension 
of  its  jurisdiction  to  matters  of  law ;  but  it  is  not  a  little  to  be 
suspected,  that  the  attempt  to  extend  the  jurisdiction  of  the  courts 

*  It  is  true  that  the  principles  by  which  that  relief  is  governed  are  now  reduced  to  a 
regular  system  ;  but  it  is  noi  the  less  true  that  (hey  are  in  the  mala  applicabl*  to  •rsOIAL 
circumstances,  which  form  exceptioni  to  general  rules. 


420  THE  FEDERALIST. 

of  law  to  matters  of  equity  will  not  only  be  unproductive  of  the 
advantafres  which  may  be  derived  from  courts  of  chancery  on  the 
plan  upon  wiiich  they  are  estabhshed  in  tliis  state,  but  will  tend 
gradually  to  change  the  nature  of  the  cr)urts  of  law,  and  to  under- 
mine the  trial  by  jury,  by  introducing  questions  too  complicated 
for  a  decision  in  that  mode. 

These  appear  to  be  conclusive  reasons  against  iucorporating  the 
systems  of  all  the  states,  in  the  formation  of  the  national  judicia- 
ry;  according  to  what  may  be  conjectured  to  have  been  the  intent 
of  the  Pennsylvania  minority.  Let  ns  now  examine,  how  far  the 
proposition  of  Massachusetts  is  calculated  to  remedy  the  supposed 
defect. 

It  is  in  this  form  :  "In  civil  actions  between  citizens  of  differ- 
•'  ent  states,  e\evy  issue  of  fact,  arising  in  actions  at  common  Imo, 
"  may  be  tried  by  a  jury,  if  the  parlies,  or  either  of  them,  request 
"it." 

This,  at  best,  is  a  proposition  confined  to  one  description  of 
causes;  and  the  inference  is  fair,  either  that  the  Massachusetts 
convention  considered  that  as  the  only  class  of  federal  causes,  in 
which  the  trial  by  jury  would  be  proper  ;  or  that  if  desirous  of  a 
more  extensive  provision,  they  found  it  impracticable  to  devise  one 
which  would  properly  answer  the  end.  If  the  first,  the  omission 
of  a  regulation  respecting  so  partial  an  object,  can  never  be  con- 
sidered as  a  material  imperfection  in  the  system.  If  the  last,  it 
affords  a  strong  corroboration  of  the  extreme  difficulty  of  the 
thing. 

But  this  is  not  all :  if  we  advert  to  the  observations  already 
made  respecting  the  courts  that  subsist  in  the  several  states  of  the 
union,  and  the  different  powers  exercised  by  them,  it  will  appear, 
that  there  are  no  expressions  more  vague  and  indeterminate  than 
those  which  have  been  employed  to  characterize  that  species  of 
causes  which  it  is  intended  shall  be  entitled  to  a  trial  by  jui'y.  In 
this  state,  the  boundaries  between  actions  at  common  law  and  ac- 
tions of  equitable  jurisdiction,  are  ascertained  in  conformity  to 
the  rules  which  prevail  in  England  upon  that  subject.  In  many 
of  the  other  states,  the  boundaries  are  less  precise.  In  some  of 
them,  every  cause  is  to  be  tried  in  a  court  of  common  law,  and 
upon  that  foundation  every  action  may  be  considered  as  an  action 
at  common  law,  to  be  determined  by  a  jury,  if  the  parties,  or  eith- 
er of  them,  choose  it.  Hence  the  same  irregularity  and  confusion 
Avould  be  introduced  by  a  compliance  with  this  proposition,  that 
I  have  already  noticed  as  resulting  from  the  regulation  proposed 
by  the   Pennsylvania  minority.      In  one  state  a  cause  would  re- 


THE  FEDERALIST.  421 

ceive  its  determination  from  a  jury,  if  the  parties,  or  either  of 
them,  requested  it;  but  in  anotlier  state,  a  cause  exactly  similar 
to  the  other,  must  be  decided  without  the  intervention  of  a  jury, 
because  the  state  triljunals  varied  as  to  common  law  jurisdiction. 

It  is  obvious,  therefore,  that  the  Massachusetts  proposition  can- 
not operate  as  a  general  regulation,  until  some  uniform  plan,  with 
respect  to  the  limits  of  common  law  and  equitable  jurisdictions, 
shall  be  adopted  by  the  different  states.  To  devise  a  plan  of  that 
kind,  is  a  task  arduous  in  itself,  and  which  it  would  require  much 
time  and  reflection  to  mature.  It  would  be  extremely  difficult,  if 
not  impossible,  to  suggest  any  general  regulation  that  would  be 
acceptable  to  all  the  states  in  the  union,  or  that  would  perfectly 
quadrate  with  the  several  state  institutions. 

It  may  be  asked,  why  could  not  a  reference  have  been  made  to 
the  constitution  of  this  state,  taking  that,  which  is  allowed  by  me 
to  be  a  good  one,  as  a  standard  for  the  United  States  ?  I  answer, 
that  it  is  not  very  probable  the  other  states  should  entertain  the 
eame  opinion  of  our  institutions  which  we  do  ourselves.  It  is  nat- 
ural to  suppose  that  they  are  more  attached  to  their  own,  and  that 
each  would  struggle  for  the  preference.  If  the  plan  of  taking 
one  state  as  a  model  for  the  whole  had  been  thought  of  in  the 
convention,  it  is  to  be  presumed  that  the  adoption  of  it  in  that 
body,  would  have  been  rendered  diflicult  by  the  predilection  of 
each  representation  in  favour  of  its  own  government ;  and  it  must 
be  uncertain,  which  of  the  states  would  have  been  taken  as  the 
model.  It  has  been  shown  that  many  of  them  would  be  improp- 
er ones.  And  I  leave  it  to  conjecture,  whether,  under  all  circum- 
stances, it  is  most  likely  that  New  York,  or  some  other  state, 
would  have  been  preferred.  But  admit  that  a  judicious  selection 
could  have  been  effected  in  the  convention,  still  there  would  have 
been  great  danger  of  jealousy  and  disgust  in  the  other  states,  at 
the  partiality  which  had  been  shown  to  the  institutions  of  one. 
The  enemies  of  the  plan  would  have  been  furnished  with  a  line 
pretext,  for  raising  a  host  of  local  prejudices  against  it,  which 
perhaps  might  have  hazarded,  in  no  inconsiderable  degree,  its  final 
establishment. 

To  avoid  the  embarrassments  of  a  definition  of  the  cases  which 
the  trial  by  jury  ought  to  embrace,  it  is  sometimes  suggested  by 
men  of  enthusiastic  tempers,  that  a  provision  might  have  been 
inserted  for  establishing  it  in  all  cases  whatsoever.  For  this,  I  be- 
lieve no  precedent  is  to  be  found  in  any  member  of  the  union  ; 
and  the  considerations  which  have  been  stated  in  discussing  the 
proposition  of  the  minority  of  Pennsylvania,  must  satisfy  every 


428  THE  FEDERALIST. 

sober  mind,  that  the  establishment  of  the  trial  by  jury  in  all  caseg 
would  have  been  an  unpardonable  errour  in  the  plan. 

In  short,  the  more  it  is  considered,  the  more  arduous  will  ap- 
pear the  task  of  fashioning  a  provision  in  such  a  form  as  not  to 
express  too  little  to  answer  the  purpose,  or  too  much  to  be  advisa- 
ble;  or  which  miglit  not  have  opened  other  sources  of  opposition, 
to  the  great  and  essential  object,  of  introducing  a  firm  national 
government. 

I  cannot  but  persuade  myself  on  the  other  hand,  that  the  differ- 
ent lights  in  which  the  subject  has  been  placed  in  the  couree  of 
these  observations,  will  go  far  towards  removing,  in  candid  minds, 
the  apprehensions  they  may  have  entertained  on  the  point.  They 
have  tended  to  show,  thai  the  security  of  liberty  is  materially  con- 
cerned only  in  the  trial  by  jury  in  criminal  cases,  which  is  provid- 
ed for  in  the  most  ample  manner  in  the  plan  of  the  convention  ; 
that  even  in  far  the  greatest  proportion  of  civil  cases,  those  in 
which  the  great  body  of  the  community  is  interested,  that  mode  of 
trial  will  remain  in  full  force,  as  established  in  the  state  constitu- 
tions, untouched  and  unaffected  by  the  plan  of  the  convention  ; 
that  it  is  in  no  case  abolished*  by  that  plan  ;  and  that  there  are 
great,  if  not  insurmountable  difficulties  in  the  way  of  making  any 
precise  and  proper  provision  for  it,  in  the  constitution  for  the  Unit- 
ed States. 

The  best  judges  of  the  matter  will  be  the  least  anxious  for  a 
constitutional  establishment  of  the  trial  by  jury  in  civil  cases,  and 
will  be  the  most  ready  to  admit,  that  the  changes  which  are  con- 
tinually happening  in  the  affairs  of  society,  may  render  a  different 
mode  of  determining  questions  of  properly  preferable  in  many 
cases,  in  which  that  mode  of  trial  now  prevails.  For  my  own 
part,  I  acknowledge  myself  to  be  convinced,  that  even  in  this  state 
it  might  be  advantageously  extended  to  some  cases  to  which  it 
does  not  at  present  apply,  and  might  as  advantageously  be  abridg- 
ed in  others.  It  is  conceded  by  all  reasonable  men,  that  it  ought 
not  to  obtain  in  all  cases.  The  examples  of  innovations  which 
contract  its  ancient  limits,  as  well  in  these  states  as  in  Great  Brit- 
ain, afford  a  strong  presumption  that  its  former  extent  has  been 
found  inconvenient;  and  give  room  to  suppose  that  future  ex- 
perience may  discover  the  propriety  and  utility  of  other  excep- 
tions. I  suspect  it  to  be  impossible  in  the  nature  of  the  thing,  to 
fix  the  salutary   point   at  which  the  operation   of   the  institution 

*  Vide  No.  LXXXI,  in  which  the  supposilioii  of  its  being  abolished  by  the  appellate 
JHiisdictioii  in  mailers  of  fact  being  vested  in  the  supreme  court,  is  examined  and  refuted. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  423 

ought  to  stop ;  and  this  is  with  rae  a  strong  a&gt;gument  for  leaving 
the  matter  to  the  discretion  of  the  legislature. 

This  is  now  clearly  understood  to  be  the  case  in  Great  Britain, 
and  it  is  equally  so  in  the  slate  of  Connecticut ;  and  yet  it  may  be 
safely  affirmed,  that  more  numerous  encroachments  have  been 
made  upon  the  trial  by  jury  in  this  state  since  the  revolution, 
though  provided  for  by  a  positive  article  of  our  constitution,  than 
has  happerfled  in  the  same  time  either  in  Connecticut  or  Great 
Britain.  It  may  be  added,  that  these  encroachments  have  gener- 
ally originated  with  the  men  who  endeavour  to  persuade  the  peo- 
ple they  are  the  warmest  defenders  of  popular  liberty,  but  who 
have  rarely  suffered  constitutional  obstacles  to  arrest  them  in  a  fa- 
vourite career.  The  truth  is  that  the  general  genius  of  a  govern- 
ment is  all  that  can  be  substantially  relied  upon  for  permanent 
effects.  Particular  provisions,  though  not  altogether  useless,  have 
far  less  virtue  and  eflficacy  than  are  commonly  ascribed  to  them; 
the  want  of  them,  will  never  be  with  men  of  sound  discernment, 
a  decisive  objection  to  any  plan  which  exhibits  the  leading  charac- 
ters of  a  good  government. 

It  certainly  sounds  not  a  little  harsh  and  extraordinary  to  affirm, 
that  there  is  no  security  for  liberty  in  a  constitution  which  express- 
ly establishes  a  trial  by  jury  in  criminal  cases,  because  it  does  not 
do  it  in  civil  also  ;  while  it  is  a  notorious  fact  that  Connecticut, 
which  has  been  always  regarded  as  the  most  popular  state  in  the 
union,  can  boast  of  no  constitutional  provision  for  either. 

PUBLIUS. 


NO.  LXXXIV. 
By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

Concerning  several  Miscellaneous  Ohjections4 

In  the  cotirse  of  the  foregoing  review  of  the  constitution,  I  have 
endeavoured  to  answer  most  of  the  objections  which  have  appear" 
ed  against  it.  There  -^main,  however,  a  few  which  either  did  not 
fall  naturally  under  any  particular  head,  or  were  forgotten  in  their 
proper  places.  These  shall  now  be  discussed  :  but  as  the  subject 
has  been  drawn  into  great  length,  I  shall  so  far  consult  brevity,  as 
to  comprise  all  my  observations  on  these  miscellaneous  points  in  a 
single  paper. 

The  most  considerable  of  the  remaining  objections  is,  that  the 
plan  of  the  convention  contains  no  bill  of  rights.  Among  other 
answers  given  to  this,  it  has  been  upon  different  occasions  remark- 


424  THE  FEDERALIST. 

ed,  that  the  constitutions  of  several  of  the  states  are  in  a  similar 
predicament.  I  add,  that  New-York  is  of  the  number.  And  yet 
the  persons  who  in  this  state  oppose  the  new  system,  while  they 
profess  an  unlimited  admiration  for  our  particular  constitution,  are 
among  the  most  intemperate  partizans  of  a  bill  of  rights.  To 
justify  their  zeal  in  this  matter,  they  allege  two  things  :  one  is, 
that  though  the  constitution  of  New  York  has  no  bill  of  rights 
prefixed  to  it,  yet  it  contains  in  the  body  of  it  various  provisions 
in  favour  of  particular  privileges  and  rights,  which,  in  substance, 
amount  to  the  same  thing  ;  the  other  is,  that  the  constitution 
adopts,  in  their  full  extent,  the  common  and  statute  law  of  Great 
Britain,  by  which  many  other  rights,  not  expressed,  are  equally 
secured. 

To  the  first  I  answer,  that  the  constitution  offered  by  the  con- 
vention contains,  as  well  as  the  constitution  of  this  state,  a  num- 
ber of  such  provisions. 

Independent  of  those  which  relate  to  the  structure  of  the  gov- 
ernment, we  find  the  following:  Article  1,  section  3,  clause  7» 
"  Judgment  in  cases  of  impeachment  shall  not  extend  further  that* 
"to  removal  from  office,  and  disqualification  to  hold  and  enjoy 
♦'  any  office  of  honour,  trust,  or  profit  under  the  United  States ; 
"but  the  party  convicted  shall,  nevertheless,  be  liable  and  sub- 
"ject  to  indictment,  trial,  judgment,  and  punishment  according 
"  to  law."  Section  9,  of  the  same  article,  clause  2.  "The  priv- 
"  ilege  of  the  writ  of  habeas  corpus  shall  not  be  suspended,  unless 
"  when  in  cases  of  rebellion  or  invasion  the  public  safety  may  re- 
"  quire  it."  Clause  3.  "  No  bill  of  attainder  or  ez  post  facto  law 
"  shall  be  passed."  Clause  7.  "  No  title  of  nobility  shall  be 
"  granted  by  the  United  States  ;  and  no  person  holding  any  office 
"  of  profit  or  trust  under  them,  shall,  without  the  consent  of  the 
"congress,  accept  of  any  present,  emolument,  office,  or  title  of 
"  any  kind  whatever,  from  any  king,  prince,  or  foreign  state." 
Article  III,  section  2,  clause  3.  "  The  trial  of  all  crimes,  except 
"in  cases  of  impeachment,  shall  be  by  jury  ;  and  such  trial  shall 
"be  held  in  the  state  where  the  said  crimtsi  shall  have  been  cora- 
"  mitted ;  but  when  not  committed  within  any  state,  the  trial  shall 
"  be  at  such  place  or  places  as  the  congress  may  by  law  have  di-- 
"  rected."  Section  3,  of  the  same  article:  "Treason  against 
"the  United  States,  shall  consist  only  m  levying  war  against  them, 
"  or  in  adhering  to  their  enemies,  giving  them  aid  and  comfort. 
"  No  person  shall  be  convicted  of  treason,  unless  on  the  testimony 
"  of  two  witnesses  to  the  same  overt  act,  or  on  confession  in  open 
"court."     And  clause  3,   of  the  same  section:     "The  congress 


THE  FEDERALIST.  425 

*'  shall  have  power  to  declare  the  punishment  of  treason  ;  but  no 
"  attainder  of  treason  shall  work  corruption  of  blood,  or  forfeiture, 
"  except  during  the  life  of  the  person  attainted." 

It  may  well  be  a  question,  whether  these  are  not,  upon  the 
whole,  of  equal  importance  with  any  which  are  to  be  found  in  the 
constitution  of  this  state.  The  establishment  of  the  writ  of  habeas 
corpus,  the  prohibition  of  ex  post  facto  la\vs,  and  of  titles  of  no- 
bility, to  which  we  have  no  currespoiiding  provisions  in  our  const  tu- 
tion,  are  perhaps  greater  securities  to  liberty  than  any  it  contains. 
The  creation  of  crimes  after  the  commission  of  the  fact,  or,  in 
other  words,  the  subjecting  of  men  to  punishment  for  things  which, 
when  they  were  done,  were  breaches  of  no  law  ;  and  the  practice 
of  arbitrary  imprisonments,  have  been,  in  all  ages,  the  favourite 
and  most  formidable  instruments  of  tyranny.  The  observations 
of  the  judicious  Blackstone,*  in  reference  to  the  latter,  are  well 
worthy  of  recital  :  "  To  bereave  a  tnan  of  life  (says  he)  or  by  vio- 
*'  lence  to  confiscate  his  estate,  without  accusation  or  trial,  wou'd 
"  be  so  gross  and  notorious  an  act  of  despotism,  as  must  at  once 
"convey  the  alarm  of  tyranny  throughout  the  whole  nation  ;  but 
♦'  confinement  of  the  person,  by  secretly  hurrying  him  to  jail,  where 
*'  his  sufferings  are  unknown  or  fi)rgotten,  is  a  less  public,  a  less 
*'  striking,  and  therefore  a  more  dangerous  engine  of  arbitrary  gov- 
"  ernment."  And  as  a  remedy  for  this  fatal  evil,  he  is  everywhere 
peculiarly  emphatical  in  his  encomiums  on  the  habeas  corpus  act, 
which  in  one  place  he  calls  "  the  bulwark  of  the  British  constitu- 
*'tion."t 

Nothing  need  be  said  to  illustrate  the  importance  of  the  prohi- 
bition of  titles  of  nobility.  This  may  truly  be  denominated  the 
corner-stone  of  republican  government ;  for  so  long  as  they  are 
excluded,  there  can  never  be  serious  danger  that  the  government 
will  be  any  other  than  that  of  the  people. 

To  the  second,  that  is,  to  the  pretended  establishment  of  the 
common  and  statute  law  by  the  constitution,  I  answer,  that  they 
are  expressly  made  subject  "to  such  alterations  and  provisions  as 
"the  legislature  shall  from  time  to  time  make  concerning  the 
"  same."  They  are  therefore  at  any  moment  liable  to  repeal  by 
the  ordinary  legislative  power,  and  of  course  have  no  constitution- 
al sanction.  The  only  use  of  the  declaration  was  to  recognize 
the  ancient  law,  and  to  remove  doubts  which  might  have  been  oc- 
casioned by  the  revolution.  This  consequently  can  be  considered 
as  no  part  of  a  declaration  of  rights;  which  under  our  constitu- 

*  Vide  Blackstonc's  Commentaries,  vol.  1,  page  136. 
t  Idem,  vol.  4,  page  438. 

62 


426  THE  FEDERALIST. 

tions  must  be  intended  to  limit  the  power  of  the    government  it- 
self. 

It  has  been  several  times  truly  remarked,  that  bills  of  rio:hts 
are,  in  their  oirgin,  stipulations  between  kings  and  their  subjects, 
abridgments  of  prerogative  in  favour  of  privilege,  reservations  of 
rights  not  surrendered  to  the  prince.  Such  was  magna  charta, 
obtained  bj  the  barons,  sword  in  hand,  from  king  John.  Such 
were  the  subsequent  corfirniations  of  that  charter  by  succeeding 
princes.  Such  was  the  petition  of  j-ighf  assented  to  by  Charles 
the  first,  in  the  beginning  of  his  reign.  Such  also,  was  the  declar- 
ation of  rights  presented  by  the  lords  and  commons  to  the  prince 
of  Orange  in  1688,  and  afterwards  thrown  into  the  form  of  an 
act  of  parliament,  called  the  bill  of  rights.  It  is  evident,  there- 
fore, that  according  to  their  primitive  signification,  they  have  no 
application  to  constitutions  professedly  founded  upon  the  power 
of  the  people,  and  executed  by  their  immediate  representatives 
and  servants.  Here,  in  strictness,  the  people  surrender  nothing; 
and  as  they  retain  every  thing,  they  have  no  need  of  particular 
reservations.  "  We  the  people  of  the  United  States,  to  secure 
"the  blessings  of  liberty  to  ourselves  and  our  posterity,  do  ordain 
"  and  establish  this  constitution  for  the  United  States  of  America:'* 
this  is  a  better  recognition  of  popular  rights,  than  volumes  of  those 
aphorisms,  which  make  the  principal  figure  in  several  of  our  state 
bills  of  rights,  and  which  would  sound  much  better  in  a  treatise  of 
ethics,  than  in  a  constitution  of  government. 

But  a  minute  detail  of  fiarticular  rights,  is  certainly  far  less  ap- 
plicable to  a  constitution  like  that  under  consideration,  which  is 
merely  intended  to  regulate  the  general  political  interests  of  the 
nation,  than  to  one  which  has  the  regulation  of  every  species  of 
personal  and  private  concerns.  If  therefore,  the  loud  clamours 
against  the  plan  of  the  convention,  on  this  score,  are  well  found- 
ed, no  epithets  of  reprobation  will  be  too  strong  for  the  constitu- 
tion of  this  state.  But  the  truth  is,  that  both  of  them  contain  all 
which,  in  relation  to  their  objects,  is  reasonably  to  be  desired. 

I  go  further,  and  affirm,  that  bills  of  rights,  in  the  sense  and  to 
the  extent  they  are  contended  for,  are  not  only  unnecessary  in  the 
proposed  constitution,  but  would  even  be  dangerous.  They  would 
contain  various  exceptions  to  powers  not  granted  ;  and  on  this 
very  account,  would  afford  a  colourable  pretext  to  claim  more 
than  were  granted.  For  why  declare  that  things  shall  not  be  done 
which  there  is  no  power  to  do  1  Why,  for  instance,  should  it  be 
said,  that  the  liberty  of  the  press  shall  not  be  restrained,  when  no 
power  is  given  by  which  restrictions  may  be  imposed  1     I  will  not 


THE  FEDERALIST.  427 

contend  that  such  a  provision  would  confer  a  regulating  power; 
but  it  is  evident  that  it  would  furnish,  to  men  disposed  to  usurp,  a 
plausible  pretence  for  claiming  that  power.  They  might  urge 
with  a  semblance  of  reason,  that  the  constitution  ought  not  to  be 
charged  with  the  absurdity  of  providing  against  the  abuse  of  an 
authority,  which  was  not  given,  that  the  provision  against  restrain- 
ing the  liberty  of  the  press  afforded  a  clear  implication,  that  a 
right  to  prescribe  proper  regulations  concerning  it,  was  intended 
to  be  vested  in  the  national  government.  This  may  serve  as  a 
specimen  of  the  numerous  handles  which  would  be  given  to  the 
doctrine  of  constructive  powers,  by  the  indulgence  of  an  injudi- 
cious zeal  for  bills  of  rights. 

On  the  subject  of  the  liberty  of  the  press,  as  much  has  been 
said,  I  cannot  forbear  adding  a  remark  or  two  :  in  the  first  place, 
I  observe  that  there  is  not  a  syllable  concerning  it  in  the  constitu- 
tion of  this  state  ;  in  the  next,  I  contend  that  whatever  has  been 
said  about  it  in  that  of  any  other  state,  amounts  to  noihing.  What 
signifies  a  declaration,  that  "  the  liberty  of  tlie  press  shall  be  in- 
"  violably  preserved  1"  What  is  the  liberty  of  the  press  1  W^ho 
can  give  it  any  definition  which  would  not  leave  the  utmost  latitude 
for  evasion  ?  I  hold  it  to  be  impracticable  ;  and  from  this  I  infer, 
that  its  security,  whatever  fine  declarations  may  be  inserted  in  any 
constitution  respecting  it,  must  altogether  depend  on  public  opin- 
ion, and  on  the  general  spirit  of  the  people  and  of  the  govern- 
ment.* And  here,  after  all,  as  is  intimated  upon  another  occa- 
sion, must  we  seek  for  the  only  solid  basis  of  our  rights- 
There  remains  but  one  other  view  of  this  matter  to  conclude 
the  point.  The  truth  is,  after  all  the  declamation  we  have  heard, 
that  the  constitution  is  itself,  in  every  rational  sense,  and  to  every 

*  To  show  iVial  ihere  is  a  power  in  the  conslilulion,  by  which  the  liberty  of  the  press 
mav  be  affected,  recourse  has  been  had  to  the  power  of  taxation  It  is  said,  that  duties 
mav  be  laid  upon  pulilicnlions  so  high  as  lo  amount  to  a  prohibition.  I  know  not  by  what 
logic  it  could  be  maintained,  that  the  declarations  in  the  state  constitutions,  in  favoiir  of 
the  freedom  of  the  press,  would  be  a  constitutional  impediment  to  tiie  imposition  of  duties 
upon  publications  by  the  state  legislatures.  It  cannot  certainly  be  pretended  that  any  de- 
gree of  duties,  however  low,  would  be  an  abridg-ment  of  the  liberty  of  the  press.  We 
know  that  newspapers  are  taxed  in  Great  Britain,  and  yet  it  is  notorious  that  the  press  no- 
where enjoys  greater  liberty  than  in  that  country.  And  if  duties  of  any  kind  may  be  laid 
without  a  violation  of  that  liberty,  it  is  evident  that  the  extent  must  depend  on  legislative 
discretion,  regulated  by  public  opinion  ;  so  that  after  all,  general  declarations  respecting' 
the  liberty  of  the  press,  will  give  it  no  greater  security  than  it  will  have  without  them. 
The  same  invasions  of  it  may  be  effected  under  the  slate  constitutions  which  contain  those 
declarations,  through  the  means  of  taxation,  as  under  the  proposed  constitution,  which  has 
nothing  of  the  kind.  It  would  be  quite  as  significant  to  declare,  that  government  ought  to 
be  free,  that  taxes  ought  not  to  be  e.\cessive,  &amp;c.  as  that  the  liberty  of  the  press  ought  not 
to  be  restrained. 


428  THE  FEDERALIST. 

useful  purpose,  a  bill  of  rights.  The  several  bills  of  rights  in 
Great  Britain,  form  its  constitution,  and  conversely  the  constitu- 
tion of  each  slate  is  its  bill  of  rii&gt;lits.  In  like  manner  the  propos- 
ed constitution,  if  adopted,  will  be  the  bill  of  rij&gt;hts  of  the  union. 
Is  it  one  object  of  a  bill  of  rights  to  declare  and  specify  the  polit- 
ical privileges  of  the  citizens  in  the  structure  and  adniinistratioa 
of  the  government  ?  This  is  done  in  the  most  ample  and  precise 
manner  in  the  plan  of  the  convention  ;  comprehending  various 
precautions  for  the  public  security,  which  are  not  to  be  found  in 
any  of  the  state  constitutions.  Is  another  object  of  a  bill  of  rights 
to  define  certain  immunities  and  modes  of  proceeding,  which  are 
relative  to  personal  and  private  concerns  1  This  we  have  seen  has 
also  been  attended  to,  in  a  variety  of  cases,  in  the  same  plan. 
Adverting  therefore  to  the  substantial  meaning  of  a  bill  of  rights, 
it  is  absurd  to  allege  that  it  is  not  to  be  found  in  the  work  of  the 
Cf»nvention.  It  may  be  said  that  it  does  not  go  far  enough,  though 
it  will  not  be  easy  to  make  this  appear;  but  it  can  with  no  pro- 
priety be  contended  that  there  is  no  such  thing.  It  certainly  must 
be  immaterial  what  mode  is  observed  as  to  the  order  of  declaring 
the  rights  of  the  citizens,  if  they  are  provided  for  in  any  part  of 
the  instrument  which  establishes  the  government:  "Whence  it 
must  be  apparent,  that  much  of  what  has  been  said  on  this  subject 
rests  merely  on  verbal  and  nominal  distinctions,  entirely  foreign 
to  the  substance  of  the  thing. 

Another  objection,  which,  from  the  frequency  of  its  repetition, 
may  be  presumed  to  be  relied  on,  is  of  this  nature :  it  is  improper 
(say  the  objectors)  to  confer  such  large  powers,  as  are  proposed, 
upon  the  national  government  ;  because  the  seat  of  that  govern- 
ment must  of  necessity  be  too  remote  from  many  of  the  states  to 
admit  of  a  proper  knowledge  on  the  part  of  the  constituent,  of 
the  conduct  of  the  representative  body.  This  argument,  if  it 
prove."  any  thing,  proves  that  there  ought  to  be  no  general  govern- 
ment whatever.  For  the  powers  which,  it  seems  to  be  agreed  on 
all  hands,  ought  to  be  vested  in  the  union,  cannot  be  safely  entrust- 
ed to  a  body  which  is  not  under  every  requisite  control.  But  there 
are  satisfactory  reasons  to  show,  that  the  objection  is,  in  reality, 
not  well  founded.  There  is  in  most  of  the  arguments  which  relate 
to  distance,  a  palpable  illusion  of  the  imagination.  What  are  the 
Sijurces  of  info:  iitatiun,  by  which  the  people  in  any  distant  county 
must  regulate  their  judgment  of  the  conduct  of  their  representa- 
tives in  the  state  legislature  1  Of  personal  observation  they  can 
have  no  benefit.  This  is  confined  to  the  citizens  on  the  spot.  They 
must  therefore  depend  on  the  information  of    intelligent  men,  in 


THE  FEDERALIST.  429 

\vhom  they  confide  :  and  how  must  these  men  obtain  their  informa- 
tion 1  Evidently  from  the  complexion  of  public  measures,  from 
the  public  prints,  from  correspondences  with  their  representatives, 
and  with  other  persons  who  reside  at  the  place  of  their  delibera- 
tions. 

It  is  equally  evident,  that  the  like  sources  of  information  would 
be  open  to  the  people,  in  relation  to  the  conduct  of  their  repre- 
sentatives in  the  jireneral  government;  and  the  impediments  to  a 
prompt  communication  which  distance  ma)'  be  supposed  to  create, 
will  be  overbalanced  by  the  effects  of  the  vigilance  of  the  state 
governments.  The  executive  and  legislative  bodies  of  each  state 
will  be  so  many  sentinels  over  the  persons  employed  in  every  de- 
partment of  the  national  administration  ;  and  as  it  will  be  in  their 
power  to  adopt  and  pursue  a  tegular  and  effectual  system  of  intel- 
ligence, they  can  never  be  at  a  loss  to  know  the  behaviour  of  those 
who  represent  their  constituents  in  the  national  councils,  and  can 
readily  communicate  the  same  knowledge  to  the  people.  Their 
disposition  to  apprize  the  community  of  whatever  may  prejudice 
its  interests  from  another  quarter,  may  be  relied  upon,  if  it  were 
only  from  the  rivalship  of  power.  And  we  may  conclude  with  the 
fullest  assurance,  that  the  people,  through  that  channel,  will  be 
better  informed  of  the  conduct  of  their  national  representatives, 
than  they  can  be  by  any  means  they  now  possess,  of  that  of  their 
state  representatives. 

It  ouirht  also  to  be  remembered,  that  the  citizens  who  inhabit 
the  country  at  and  near  the  seat  of  government  will,  in  all  ques- 
tions that  affect  the  general  liberty  and  prosperity,  have  the  same 
interest  with  those  who  are  at  a  distance  ;  and  that  they  will  stand 
ready  to  sound  the  alarm  when  necessary,  and  to  point  out  the  ac- 
tors in  any  pernicious  project.  The  puhiic  papers  will  be  expedi- 
tious messengers  of  intelligence  to  the  most  remote  inhabitants  of 
the  union. 

Among  the  many  curious  objections  which  have  appeared  against 
the  proposed  constitution,  the  most  extraordinary  and  the  least 
colourable  is  derived  from  the  want  of  some  provision  respecting 
the  debts  due  to  the  United  States.  This  has  been  represented  as 
a  tacit  relinquishment  of  those  debts,  and  as  a  wicked  contrivance 
to  screen  public  defaulters.  The  newspapers  have  teemed  with 
the  most  inflammatory  r. tilings  on  this  head  ;  yet  there  is  nothing 
clearer  than  that  the  suggestion  is  entirely  void  of  foundation, 
the  offspring  of  extreme  ignorance  or  extreme  dishonesty.  In  ad- 
dition to  the  remarks  I  have  made  upon  the  subject  in  another 
place,  I  shall  only  observe,  that  as  it  is  a  plain  dictate  of  common 


430  THE  FEDERALIST. 

sense,  so  it  is  also  an  established  doctrine  of  political  law,  that 
"  states  neither  lose  any  of  their  rights,  nor  are  discharged  from  any 
"  of  their  obligations,  by  a  change  in  the  form  of  their  civil  govern- 
"  7?ient."* 

The  last  objection  of  any  consequence,  at  present  recollected, 
turns  upon  the  article  of  expense.  If  it  were  even  true,  that  the 
adoption  of  the  proposed  government  would  occasion  a  considera- 
ble increase  of  expense,  it  would  be  an  objection  that  ought  to 
have  no  weight  against  the  plan.  The  great  bulk  of  the  citizens 
of  America  are  with  reason  convinced,  that  union  is  the  basis  of 
their  political. happiness.  Men  of  sense  of  all  parties  now,  with 
few  exceptions,  agree  that  it  cannot  be  preserved  under  the  present 
system,  nor  without  radical  alterations  ;  that  new  and  extensive 
powers  ought  to  be  granted  to  the  national  head,  and  that  these 
require  a  different  organization  of  the  federal  government ;  a  sin- 
gle body  being  an  unsafe  depository  of  such  ample  authorities. 
In  conceding  all  this,  the  question  of  expense  is  given  up  ;  for  it 
is  impossible,  with  any  degree  of  safety,  to  narrow  the  foundation 
upon  which  the  system  is  to  stand.  The  two  branches  of  the  leg- 
islature are  in  the  first  instance,  to  consist  of  only  sixty-five  per- 
sons;  the  same  number  of  which  congress,  under  the  existing  con- 
federation may  be  composed.  It  is  true  that  this  number  is  in- 
tended to  be  increased;  but  this  is  to  keep  pace  with  the  progress 
of  the  population  and  resources  of  the  country.  It  is  evident  that 
a  less  number  would,  even  in  the  first  instance,  have  been  unsafe; 
and  that  a  continuance  of  the  present  number  would,  in  a  more 
advanced  stage  of  population,  be  a  very  inadequate  representation 
of  the  people. 

Whence  is  the  dreaded  augmentation  of  expense  to  spring? 
One  source  indicated,  is  the  multiplication  of  offices  under  the 
new  government.     Let  us  examine  this  a  little. 

It  is  evident  that  the  principal  departments  of  the  administra- 
tion under  the  present  government,  are  the  same  which  will  be  re- 
quired under  the  new.  There  are  now  a  secretary  at  war,  a  sec- 
retary for  foreign  affairs,  a  secretary  for  domestic  afi'airs,  a  board 
of  treasury  consisting  of  three  persons,  a  treasurer,  assistants, 
clerks,  «fec. ;  these  offices  are  indispensable  under  any  system,  and 
will  suffice  under  the  new  as  well  as  the  old.  As  to  ambassadors 
and  other  ministers  and  agents  in  foreign  countries,  the  proposed 
constitution  can  make  no  other  difference,  than  to  render  their 
characters,  where  they  reside,  more  respectable,  and  their  services 

*  Vide  Rutherford's  Institutes,  vol.  2,  book  11,  cliap.  x,  sect,  xiv,  and  xv....Vide  also 
Grolius,  book  11,  chap,  ix,  sect,  viii,  and  ix. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  431 

more  useful.  As  to  persons  to  be  employed  in  the  collection 
of  the  revenues,  Jt  is  unquestionably  true  that  these  will  form  a 
very  considerable  addition  to  the  number  of  federal  officers;  but 
it  will  not  follow,  thai  this  will  occasion  an  increase  of  public  ex- 
pense. It  will  be  in  most  cases  nothing  more  than  an  exchange 
of  state  for  national  officers.  In  the  collection  of  all  duties,  for 
instance,  the  persons  emphiyed  will  be  wholly  of  the  latter  de- 
scription. The  states  individually  will  stand  in  no  need  of  any 
for  this  purpose.  What  difference  can  it  make  in  point  of  ex- 
pense, to  pay  officers  of  the  customs  appointed  by  the  state  or  by 
the  United  States  1 

Where  then  are  we  to  seek  for  those  additional  articles  of  ex- 
pense, which  are  to  swell  the  account  to  the  enormous  size  that 
has  been  represented  ?  The  chief  item  which  occurs  to  me,  re- 
spects the  support  of  the  judges  of  the  United  States.  I  do  not 
add  the  president,  because  there  is  now  a  president  of  congress, 
whose  expenses  may  not  be  far,  if  any  thing,  short  of  those  which 
will  be  incurred  on  account  of  the  president  of  the  United  States. 
The  support  of  the  judges  will  clearly  be  an  extra  expense,  but  to 
what  extent,  will  depend  on  the  particular  plan  which  may  be 
adopted  in  regard  to  this  matter.  But  upon  no  reasonable  plan 
can  it  amount  to  a  sum  which  will  be  an  object  of  material  conse- 
quence. 

Let  us  now  see  what  there  is  to  counterbalance  any  extra  ex- 
pense that  may  attend  the  establishment  of  the  proposed  govern- 
ment. The  first  thing  which  presents  itself  is,  that  a  great  part 
of  the  business,  that  now  keeps  congress  sitting  through  the  year, 
will  be  transacted  by  the  president.  Even  the  management  of 
foreign  negotiations  will  naturally  devolve  upon  him,  according  to 
general  principles  concerted  with  the  senate,  and  subject  to  their 
final  concurrence.  Hence  it  is  evident,  that  a  portion  of  the  year 
will  suffice  for  the  session  of  both  the  senate  and  the  house  of 
representatives:  we  may  suppose  about  a  fourth  for  the  latter,  and 
a  third,  or  perhaps  half,  for  the  former.  The  extra  business  of 
treaties  and  appointments  may  give  this  extra  occupation  to  the 
senate.  From  this  circumstance  we  may  infer,  that  until  the  house 
of  representatives  shall  be  increased  greatly  beyond  its  present 
number,  there  will  be  a  considerable  saving  of  expense  from  the 
difierence  between  a  constant  session  of  the  present,  and  the 
temporary  session   of  the  future  congress. 

But  there  is  another  ciicumstance,  of  great  importance  in  the 
view  of  economy.  The  business  of  the  United  States  has  hitherto 
occupied  the  state  legislatures,  as  well  as  congress.      The  latter 


432  THE  FEDERALIST. 

has  made  requisitions  which  the  former  have  had  to  provide  for. 
It  has  thence  happened,  that  the  sessions  of  the  state  legislatures 
have  been  protracted  greatly  beyond  what  was  necessary  for  the 
execution  of  the  mere  local  business.  More  than  half  their  time 
has  been  frequently  employed  in  niaiters  which  related  to  the 
United  States.  Now  the  members  who  compose  the  legislatures 
of  the  several  states  amount  to  two  thousand  and  upwards;  which 
number  has  hitherto  performed  what  under  the  new  system  will 
be  done  in  the  first  instance  by  sixty-five  persons,  and  probably  at 
no  future  period  by  above  a  fourth  or  a  fifth  of  that  number.  The 
congress,  under  the  proposed  government,  will  do  all  the  business 
of  the  United  States  themselves,  without  the  intervention  of  the 
state  legislatures,  who  thenceforth  will  have  only  to  attend  to  the 
affairs  of  their  particular  states,  and  will  not  have  to  sit  in  any 
proportion  as  long  as  they  have  heretofore  done.  This  difference, 
in  the  time  of  the  sessions  of  the  state  legislatures,  will  be  clear 
gain,  and  will  alone  form  an  article  of  saving,  which  may  be  re- 
garded as  an  equivalent  for  any  additional  objects  of  expense  that 
may  be  occasioned  by  the  adoption  of  the  new  system. 

The  result  from  these  observations  is,  that  the  sources  of  addi- 
tional expense  from  the  establishment  of  the  proposed  constitu- 
tion, are  much  fewer  than  may  have  been  imagined  ;  that  they 
are  counterbalanced  by  considerable  objects  of  saving;  and  that 
while  it  is  questionable  on  which  side  the  scale  will  preponderate, 
it  is  certain  that  a  government  less  expensive  would  he  incompe- 
tent to  the  purposes  of  the  union.  PUBLIUS.. 


NO.  LXXXV. 
Bt  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 

Conclusion. 

According  to  the  formal  division  of  the  subject  of  these  papers, 
announced  in  my  first  number,  theie  would  appear  still  to  remain 
for  discussion  two  points...."  the  analogy  of  the  proposed  govern- 
"  ment  to  your  own  state  constitution,"  and  "the  additional  secu- 
"  rity  which  its  adoption  will  afford  to  republican  government,  to 
"  liberty,  and  to  property."  But  these  heads  have  been  so  fully  an- 
ticipated, and  so  completely  exhausted  in  the  progress  of  the  work, 
that  it  would  now  scarcely  be  possible  to  do  any  thing  more  than 
repeat,  in  a  more  dilated  form,  what  has  been  already  said  ;  which 
the  advanced  stage  of  the  question,  and  the  time  already  spent 
upon  it,  conspire  to  forbid. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  433 

It  is  remarkable,  that  the  resemblance  of  the  plan  of  the  con- 
vention to  the  act  which  organizes  the  g'overnment  of  this  state, 
holds,  not  less  with  regard  to  many  of  the  supposed  defects,  liian 
to  the  real  excellencies  of  the  former.  Among  the  pretended  de- 
fects, are  the  reeligibihTy  of  the  executive  ;  the  want  of  a  council ; 
the  omission  of  a  formal  bill  of  rights  ;  the  omission  of  a  provision 
respecting  tiie  liberty  of  the  press  :  these,  and  several  others, 
V  liicli  luive  been  noted  in  the  course  of  our  iiicpjiries,  are  as  nmch 
chargeable  on  the  existing  constitution  of  this  state,  ;;s  on  the  one 
proposed  for  the  union  :  and  a  man  must  have  slender  pretensions 
to  consistency,  who  can  rail  at  the  latter  ftr  imperfectit)ns,  which 
he  finds  no  difficulty  in  excusing  in  the  former.  Nor  indeed  can 
there  be  a  better  proof  of  the  insincerity  and  affectation  of  some 
of  the  zealous  adversaries  of  the  plan  of  the  convention,  who  pro- 
fess to  be  devoted  admirers  of  the  government  of  this  state,  than 
the  fury  with  which  they  have  attacked  that  plan,  for  matters  in 
regard  to  which  our  own  constitution  is  equally,  or  perhaps  more 
vulnerable. 

The  additional  securities  to  republican  government,  to  liberty, 
and  to  property,  to  be  derived  from  the  adoption  of  the  plan,  con- 
sist chiefly  in  the  restraints  which  the  preservation  of  the  union 
will  impose  upon  local  factions  and  insurrections,  and  upon  the 
ambition  of  powerful  individuals  in  single  states,  who  might  ac- 
quire credit  and  influence  enough,  from  leaders  and  favourites,  to 
become  the  despots  of  the  people  ;  in  the  diminution  of  the  op- 
portunities to  foreign  intrigue,  which  the  dissolution  of  the  confed- 
eracy would  invite  and  facilitate  ;  in  the  prevention  of  extensive 
military  establishments,  which  could  not  fail  to  grow  out  of  wars 
between  the  states  in  a  disunited  situation  ;  in  the  express  guaran- 
ty of  a  republican  form  of  government  to  each  ;  in  the  absolute 
and  universal  exclusion  of  titles  of  nobility;  and  in  the  precau- 
tions against  the  repetition  of  those  practices  on  the  part  of  the 
state  governments, which  have  undermined  the  foundations  of  prop- 
erty and  credit ;  have  planted  mutual  distrust  in  the  breasts  of  all 
classes  of  citizens  ;  and  have  occasioned  an  almost  universal  pros- 
tration of  morals. 

Thus  have  I,  fellow-citizens,  executed  the  task  I  had  assigned 
to  myself;  with  what  success,  your  conduct  must  determine.  I 
trust,  at  Irast,  you  will  admit,  that  I  have  not  failed  in  the  assurance 
I  gave  you  respecting  the  spirit  with  wliich  my  endeav&lt;iurs  should 
be  conducted.  I  have  addressed  myself  purely  to  your  judgments, 
and  have  studiously  avoided  those  asperities,  which  are  too  apt 
to  disgrace  political  disputants  of  all  parties,  and  which  have 
53 


434  THE  FEDERALIST. 

been  not  a  little  provoked  by  the  language  and  conduct  of  the  op- 
ponents of  the  constitution.  The  charge  of  a  conspiracy  against 
the  liberties  of  the  people,  which  has  been  indiscriminately 
brought  against  the  advocates  of  the  plan,  has  something  in  it  too 
wanton  and  too  malignant,  not  to  excite  the  indignation  of  every 
man  who  feels  in  his  own  bosom  a  refutation  of  the  calumny.  The 
perpetual  changes  which  have  been  rung  upon  the  wealthy,  the  well- 
born, and  the  great,  are  sucli  as  to  inspire  the  disgust  of  all  sensible 
men.  And  the  unwarrantable  concealments  and  misrepresentations, 
which  have  been  in  various  ways  practised  to  keep  the  truth  from 
the  public  eye,  are  of  a  nature  to  demand  the  reprobation  of  all 
honest  men.  It  is  possible,  that  these  circui^istances  may  have 
occasionally  betrayed  me  into  intemperances  of  expression  which 
I  did  not  intend  :  it  is  certain,  that  I  have  frequently  felt  a  strug- 
gle between  sensibility  and  moderation  ;  and  if  the  former  has  in 
some  instances  prevailed,  it  must  be  my  excuse,  that  it  has  been 
neither  often,  nor  much. 

Let  us  now  pause,  and  ask  ourselves,  whether,  in  the  course  of 
these  papers,  the  proposed  constitution  has  not  been  satisfactorily 
vindicated  from  tiie  aspersions  thrown  upon  if  ;  and  whether  it 
has  not  been  shown  to  be  worthy  of  the  public  appiobation,  and 
necessary  to  the  public  safety  and  prnsfjerity.  Every  man  is 
bound  to  answer  these  questions  to  himself,  according  to  the  best 
of  his  conscience  and  understanding,  and  to  act  agreeably  to  the 
genuine  and  sober  dictates  of  his  judgment.  This  is  a  duty  from 
•which  nothing  can  give  him  a  dispensation.  It  is  one  that  he  is 
called  upon,  nay,  constrained  by  all  the  obligations  that  form  the 
bands  of  society,  to  discharge  sincerely  and  honestly.  No  partial 
motive,  no  particular  interest,  no  pride  of  oj)inion,  no  temporary 
passion  or  prejudice,  will  justify  to  himself,  to  his  country,  to  his 
posterity,  an  im|)roper  election  of  the  part  he  is  to  act.  Let  him 
beware  of  an  obstinate  adherence  to  party  :  let  him  reflect,  that 
the  object  upon  which  he  is  to  decide  is  not  a  particular  interest 
of  the  community,  but  the  very  existence  of  the  nation  :  and  let 
him  remember,  that  a  majority  of  America  has  already  given  its 
sanction  to  the  plan  which  he  is  to  approve  or  reject. 

I  shall  not  dissemble,  that  I  feel  an  entire  confidence  in  the  ar- 
guments which  recommend  the  proposed  system  to  your  adoption  ; 
and  that  I  am  unable  to  discern  any  real  force  in  those  by  which 
it  has. been  assailed.  I  am  pursiiaded,  that  it  is  the  best  which 
our  political  situation,  linhiis,  and  opinions  will  admit,  and  superi- 
our  to  any  the  revolution  has  produced. 

Concessions  on  the  part  of  the  friends  of  the  plan,  that  it  has 


THE  FEDERALIST.  436 

not  a  claim  to  absolute  perfection,  have  afforded  matter  of  no 
small  triumph  to  its  eiieinies.  "Why,  say  tliey,  should  we  adopt  an 
imperfect  thing?  VVtiy  not  amend  it,  and  make  it  perfect  before 
it  is  irrevocably  established  I  This  may  be  plausible,  but  is  plau- 
sible only.  In  the  first  place  I  remark,  that  the  extent  of  these 
concessions  has  been  greatly  exaggerated.  They  have  been  stat- 
ed as  anjounting  to  an  admission,  that  the  plan  is  radically  defec- 
tive; and  that  without  material  alteiations,  the  rights  and  the  in- 
terests o{  the  community  cannot  be  safely  confided  to  it.  This, 
as  far  as  I  have  understood  the  meaning  of  those  who  make  the 
concessions,  is  an  entire  perversion  of  their  sense.  No  advocate 
of  the  measure  can  be  found,  who  will  not  declare  as  his  senti- 
ment, that  the  system,  though  it  may  not  be  perfect  in  every  part, 
is,  upon  the  whole,  a  good  one  ;  is  the  best  that  the  present  viewg 
and  circumstances  of  the  country  will  permit ;  and  is  such  a  one 
as  promises  every  species  of  security  which  a  reasonable  people 
can  desire. 

I  answer  in  the  next  place,  that  I  should  esteem  it  the  extreme 
of  imprudence  to  prolong  the  precarious  state  of  our  national 
affairs,  and  to  expose  the  union  to  the  jeopardy  of  successive  ex- 
periments, in  the  chimerical  pursuit  of  a  perfect  plan.  I  never 
expect  to  see  a  perfect  work  from  imperfect  man.  The  result  of 
the  deliberations  of  all  collective  bodies,  must  necessarily  be  a 
compound  as  well  of  the  errours  and  prejudices,  as  of  the  good 
sense  and  wisdom  of  the  individuals  of  whom  they  are  composed. 
The  compacts  which  are  to  embrace  thirteen  distinct  states,  in  a 
common  bond  of  amity  and  union,  must  as  necessarily  be  a  com- 
promise of  as  many  dissimilar  interests  and  inclinations.  How 
can  perfection  spring  from  such  materials  1 

The  reasons  assigned  in  an  excellent  little  pamphlet  lately  pub- 
lished in  this  city,*  unanswerably  show  the  utter  improbability  of 
assembling  a  new  convention,  under  circumstances  in  any  degree 
so  favourable  to  a  happy  issue,  as  those  in  which  the  late  conven- 
tion met,  deliberated,  and  concluded.  I  will  not  repeat  the  argu- 
ments there  used,  as  I  presume  the  production  itself  has  had  an 
extensive  circulation.  It  is  certainly  well  worth  the  perusal  of 
every  friend  to  his  country.  There  is  however  one  point  of  light 
in  which  the  subject  of  amendments  still  remains  to  be  considered ; 
and  in  which  it  has  not  yet  been  exhibited.  I  cannot  resolve  to 
conclude,  without  first  taking  a  survey  of  it  in  this  aspect. 

It  appears  to  me  susceptible  of  complete  demonstration,  that  it 
will  be  far  more  easy  to  obtain  subsequent  than  previous  araend- 
*  Entitled  "  An  Addrew  to  the  people  of  the  state  of  New  York." 


436  THE  FEDERALIST. 

mcnts  to  the  constitution.  The  moment  an  alteration  is  made  in 
the  present  plan,  it  becomes,  to  the  purpose  of  adoption,  a  new 
one,  and  must  undergo  a  new  decision  of  each  state.  To  its  com- 
plete establishment  throughout  the  union,  it  will  therefore  require 
the  concurrence  of  thirteen  states.  If,  on  the  contrary,  tlie  con- 
stitution should  once  be  ratified  by  all  the  states  as  it  stands,  alter- 
ations in  it  may  at  any  time  be  effected  by  nine  states.  In  this 
view  alone,  the  chances  are  as  thirteen  to  nine*  in  favour  of  sub- 
sequent amendments,  rather  than  of  the  original  adoption  of  an 
entire  system. 

This  is  not  alh  Every  constitution  for  the  United  States  must 
inevitcibly  consist  of  a  great  variety  of  particulars,  in  which  tliir- 
teen  independent  states  are  to  be  accommodated  in  their  interests 
or  opinions  of  interest.  We  may  of  course  expect  to  see,  in  any 
body  of  men  charged  with  its  original  formation,  very  different 
combinations  of  tlie  parts  upon  different  points.  Many  of  those 
■who  form  the  majority  on  one  question,  may  become  the  minority 
on  a  second,  and  an  association  dis.simihrr  to  either  may  constitute 
the  majority  on  a  third.  Hence  the  necessity  of  moulding  and 
arrnnging  all  the  particulars  which  are  to  compose  the  whole,  in 
such  a  manner  as  to  satisfy  all  the  parties  to  the  compact;  and 
hence,  also,  an  immense  multiplication  of  difficulties  and  casual- 
ties in  obtaining  the  collective  assent  to  a  final  act.  The  degree 
of  that  multi|jlication  must  evidently  be  in  a  ratio  to  the  number 
of  particulars  and  the  number  of  parties. 

But  every  amendment  to  the  constitution,  if  once  established, 
would  be  a  single  proposition,  and  might  be  brought  forward  sing- 
ly. There  would  then  be  no  necessity  for  management  or  com- 
promise, in  relation  to  any  other  point ;  no  giving,  nor  taking. 
The  will  of  the  requisite  number  would  at  once  bring  the  matter 
to  a  decisive  issue.  And  consequently,  whenever  nine,  or  rather 
ten  states,  were  united  in  the  desire  of  a  particular  amendment, 
that  amendment  must  infallibly  prevail.  There  can,  therefore, 
be  no  comparison  between  the  facility  of  effecting  an  amendment, 
and  that  of  establishing  in  the  first  instance  a  complete  constitu- 
tion. 

Ill  opposition  to  the  probability  of  subsequent  amendments,  it  has 
been  urged,  that  the  persons  delegated  to  the  administration  of  the 
national  government,  will  always  be  disinclined  to  yield  up  any  por- 
tion of  the  authority  of  which  they  were  once  possessed.  For  my 
own  part,  I  acknowledge  a  thorough  conviction,  that  any  amend- 

*  It  may  rather  be  said  ten,  for  though  two  thirds  may  se'  on  foot  the  measure,  three 
fourths  must  ratify. 


THE  FEDERALIST.  437 

tnents  which  may,  upon  mature  consideration,  be  thought  useful, 
will  be  applicable  to  the  organization  of  the  government,  not  to 
the  mass  of  its  powers;  and  on  tliis  account  alone,  I  think  there 
is  no  weight  in  tlie  observation  just  stated.  I  also  think  there  is 
little  force  in  it  on  another  account.  The  intrinsic  difficulty  of 
governing  thirteen  states,  independent  of  calculations  upon  an 
ordinary  degree  of  public  spirit  and  integrity,  will,  in  my  opin- 
ion, constantly  impose  on  the  national  rulers  the  necessity  of  a  spirit 
of  accommodation  to  the  reasonable  expectations  of  their  constit- 
uents. But  there  is  yet  a  further  consideration,  which  proves,  be- 
yond the  possibility  of  doubt,  that  the  observation  is  futile.  It  is 
this,  that  the  national  rulers,  whenever  nine  states  concur,  will 
have  no  option  upon  the  subject.  By  the  fifth  article  of  the  plan, 
the  congress  will  be  obliged,  "on  the  application  of  the  legislatures 
"of  two  thirds  of  the  states,  (which  at  present  amount  to  nine,) 
*' to  call  a  convention  for  proposing  amendments,  which  shall  he 
**  valid  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  as  part  of  the  constitution, 
*'  when  ratified  by  the  legislatures  of  three  fourths  of  the  states,  or 
*' by  conventions  in  three  fourths  thereof"  The  words  of  this 
article  are  peremptory.  The  congress  "  sAa// call  a  convention." 
Nothing  in  this  particular  is  left  to  discretion.  Of  consequence, 
all  the  declamation  about  the  disinclination  to  a  change,  vanishes 
in  air.  Nor  however  difficult  it  may  be  supposed  to  unite  two 
thirds,  or  three  fourths  of  the  state  legislatures,  in  amendments 
which  may  affect  local  interests,  can  there  be  any  room  to  appre- 
hend any  such  difficulty  in  a  union  on  points  which  are  merely  re- 
lative to  the  general  liberty  or  security  of  the  people.  We  may 
safely  rely  on  the  disposition  of  the  state  legislatures  to  erect  bar- 
riers against  the  encroachments  of  the  national  authority. 

If  the  foregoing  argument  be  a  fallacy,  certain  it  is  that  I  am 
myself  deceived  by  it ;  for  it  is,  in  my  conception,  one  of  those 
rare  instances  in  which  a  political  truth  can  be  brought  to  the  test 
of  mathematical  demonstration.  Those  who  see  the  matter  in 
the  same  light,  however  zealous  they  may  be  for  amendments, 
must  agree  in  the  propriety  of  a  previous  adoption,  as  the  most 
direct  road  to  their  object. 

The  zeal  for  attempts  to  amend,  prior  to  the  establishment  of 
the  constitution,  must  abate  in  every  man,  who  is  ready  to  accede 
to  the  truth  of  the  following  observations  of  a  writer,  equally  solid 
and  ingenious:  "  To  balance  a  large  state  or  society,  (says  he,) 
•'  whether  monarchical  or  republican,  on  general  laws,  is  a  work 
"  of  so  great  difficulty,  that  no  human  genius,  however  compre- 
*•  hensive,  is  able  by  the  mere  dint  of  reason  and  reflection,  to 


438  THE  FEDERALIST. 

*'  effect  it.  The  judnfments  of  many  must  unite  in  the  work  :  ex- 
«'  FERiENCE  must  guide  their  labour  :  time  must  bring  it  to  perfec- 
"tion:  and  the  FEELING  of  inconveniences  must  correct  the  mis- 
•'  takes  which  they  inevitably  fall  into,  in  their  first  trials  and  ex- 
♦'  periments."*  These  judicious  reflections  contain  a  lesson  of 
moderation  to  all  the  sincere  lovers  of  the  union,  and  ought  to  put 
them  upon  their  guard  against  hazarding  anarchy,  civil  war,  a 
perpetual  alienation  of  the  states  from  each  other,  and  perhaps 
the  military  despotism  of  a  victorious  demagogue,  in  the  purt&gt;uit 
of  what  they  are  not  likely  to  obtain,  but  from  time  and  experi- 
ence. It  may  be  in  me  a  defect  of  political  fortitude,  but  I  ac- 
knowledge that  I  cannot  entertain  an  equal  tranquillity  with  those 
who  affect  to  treat  the  dangers  of  a  longer  continuance  in  our 
present  situation  as  imaginary.  A  nation,  without  a  national 
GOVERNMENT,  is  ati  awful  spectacle.  The  establishment  of  a  con- 
stitution, in  time  of  profound  peace,  by  the  voluntary  consent  of 
a  whole  people,  is  a  prodigy,  to  the  completion  of  which  I  look 
forward  with  trembling  anxiety.  In  so  arduous  an  enterprise,  I 
can  reconcile  it  to  no  rules  of  prudence  to  let  go  the  hold  we  now 
have,  upon  seven  out  of  the  thirteen  states  ;  and  after  having  pass- 
ed over  so  considerable  a  part  of  the  ground,  to  recommence  the 
course.  I  dread  the  more  the  consequences  of  new  attempts,  be- 
cause I  KNOW  that  POWERFUL  INDIVIDUALS,  iu  this  and  in  other 
states,  are  enemies  to  a  general  national  government  in  every 
possible  shape.  PUBLIUS. 


•  Hume's  Essays,  vol   1,  page  128. ...The  rise  of  arts  and  sciences. 


THE  LETTERS  OF  FACIFICUS. 


By  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON. 


NO.  L 

As  attempts  are  making,  very  dangerous  to  the  peace,  and,  it  is 
to  be  feared,  not  very  friendly  to  the  constitution  of  the  United 
States,  it  becomes  the  duty  of  those  who  wish  well  to  both,  to  en- 
deavour to  prevent  their  success. 

The  objections  which  have  been  raised  against  the  proclamation 
of  neutrality,  lately  issued  by  the  president,  have  been  urged  in  a 
spirit  of  acrimony  and  invective,  wliich  demonstrates  that  more  was 
in  view  than  merely  a  free  discussion  of  an  important  public  meas- 
ure. They  exhibit  evident  indications  of  a  design  to  weaken  the 
confidence  of  the  people  in  the  author  of  the  measure,  in  order  to 
remove  or  lessen  a  powerful  obstacle  to  the  success  of  an  opposition 
to  the  government,  which,  however  it  may  change  its  form  accord- 
ing to  circumstances,  seems  still  to  be  persisted  in  with  unremit- 
ting industry. 

This  reflection  adds  to  the  motives  connected  with  the  measure 
itself,  to  recommend  endeavours,  by  proper  explanations,  to  place 
it  in  a  just  light.  Such  explanations,  at  least,  cannot  but  be  satis^ 
factory  to  those  who  may  not  themselves  have  leisure  or  oppor- 
tunity for  pursuing  an  investigation  of  the  subject,  and  who  may 
wish  to  perceive,  that  the  policy  of  the  government  is  not  incon- 
sistent with  its  obligations  or  its  honour. 

The  objections  in  question  fall  under  four  heads  : 

1.  That  the  proclamation  was  without  authority. 

2.  That  it  was  contrary  to  our  treaties  with  France. 

3.  That  it  was  contrary  to  the  gratitude  which  is  due  from  this 
to  that  country,  for  the  succours  afforded  to  us  in  our  own  revolu- 
tion. 


440  LETTERS  OF 

4.  That  it  was  out  of  time  and  unnecessary. 

In  order  to  judge  of  the  solidity  of  the  first  of  these  objections, 
it  is  necessary  to  examine  what  is  the  nature  and  design  of  a  pro- 
clamation of  neutrality. 

It  is  to  make  known  to  the  powers  at  war,  and  to  the  citizens  of 
the  country  whose  government  does  the  act,  that  such  country  is 
in  the  condition  of  a  nation  at  peace  with  the  belligerant  pai'ties, 
and  under  no  obligations  of  treaty  to  become  an  associate  in  the 
war  with  either,  and  that  this  being  its  situation,  its  intention  is  to 
observe  a  correspondent  conduct,  by  performing  towards  each  the 
duties  of  neutrality  ;  to  warn  all  persons  within  the  jurisdiction 
of  that  country,  to  abstain  from  acts  that  shall  contravene  those 
duties,  under  the  penalties  which  the  laws  of  the  land,  of  which 
the  jus  gentium  is  part,  will  inflict. 

This,  and  no  more,  is  conceived  to  be  the  true  import  of  a  pro- 
clamation of  neutrality. 

It  does  not  imply,  that  the  nation  which  makes  the  declaration, 
will  forbear  to  perform  to  either  of  the  warring  powers  any  stipu- 
lations in  treaties  which  can  be  executed,  without  becoming  a 
party  in  the  war.  It  therefore  does  not  imply  in  our  case,  that  the 
United  States  will  not  make  those  distinctions,  between  the  present 
belligerant  powers,  which  are  stipulated  in  the  7th  and  22d  articles 
of  our  treaty  with  France  ;  because  they  are  not  incompatible 
with  the  state  of  neutrality  ;  and  will  in  no  shape  render  the  Unit- 
ed States  an  associate  or  party  in  the  war.  This  must  be  evident, 
when  it  is  considered  that  even  to  furnish  determinate  succours  of 
ships  or  troops,  to  a  power  at  war,  in  consequence  of  antecedent 
treaties.,  having  no  particular  reference  to  the  existing  quarrel,  is  not 
inconsistent  with  neutrality  :  a  position  equally  well  established 
by  the  doctrines  of  writers,  and  the  practice  of  nations.* 

But  no  special  aids,  succours,  or  favours,  having  relation  to  war, 
not  positively  and  precisely  stipulated  by  some  treaty  of  the  above 
description,  can  be  afforded  to  either  party,  without  a  breach  of 
neutrality. 

In  stating  that  the  proclamation  of  neutrality  does  not  imply 
the  non-performance  of  any  stipulations  of  treaties,  which  are  not 
of  a  nature  to  make  the  nation  an  associate  in  the  war,  it  is  con- 
ceded that  an  execution  of  the  clause  of  guaranty,  contained  in 
the  eleventh  article  of  our  treaty  of  alliance  with  France,  would 
be  contrary  to  the  sense  and  spirit  of  the  proclamation  ;  because 
it  would  engage  us  with  our  whole  force,  as  an  auxiliary  in  the 

*  See  Vale),  Book  III,  Chap.  6,  Sec,  101. 


PACIFICUS.  441 

war ;  it  would  be  much  more  than  the  case  of  a  definite  succour, 
previously  ascertained. 

It  foHows,  that  the  proclamation  is  virtually  a  manifestation  of 
the  sense  of  the  government,  that  the  United  States  are,  under  the 
circumstances  of  the  case,  not  bound  to  execute  the  clause  of  guar- 
anty. 

If  this  be  a  just  view  of  the  force  and  import  of  the  proclama- 
tion, it  will  remain  to  see,  whether  the  president,  in  issuing  it,  act- 
ed within  his  proper  sphere,  or  stepped  beyond  the  bounds  of  his 
constitutional  authority  and  duty. 

It  will  not  be  disputed,  that  the  management  of  the  affairs  of 
this  country  with  foreign  nations,  is  confided  to  the  government  of 
the  United  Stales. 

It  can  as  little  be  disputed,  that  a  proclamation  of  neutrality, 
when  a  nation  is  at  liberty  to  decline  or  avoid  a  war  in  which  other 
nations  are  engaged,  and  means  to  do  so,  is  a  usual  and  a  proper 
measure.  Its  main  object  is  to  prevent  the  nation's  being  responsible 
for  acts  done  by  its  citizens,  without  the  privity  or  connivance  of  the 
government,  in  contravention  of  the  principles  of  neutrality  ;*  an 
object  of  the  greatest  moment  to  a  country,  whose  true  interest 
lies  in  the  preservation  of  peace. 

The  inquiry  then  is,  what  department  of  our  government  is  the 
proper  one  to  make  a  declaration  of  neutrality,  when  the  engage- 
ments of  the  nation  permit,  and  its  interests  require  that  it  should 
be  done  1 

A  correct  mind  will  discern  at  once,  that  it  can  belong  neither 
to  the  legislative  nor  judicial  department,  of  course  must  belong 
to  the  executive. 

The  legislative  department  is  not  the  organ  of  intercourse  be- 
tween the  United  States  and  foreign  nations.  It  is  charged  neither 
with  making  nor  interpreting  ttenties.  It  is  therefore  not  naturally 
that  member  of  the  government,  which  is  to  pronounce  the  exist- 
ing condition  of  the  nation,  with  regard  to  foreign  powers,  or  to 
admonish  the  citizens  of  their  obligations  and  duties  in  conse- 
quence; still  less  is  it  charged  with  enforcing  the  observance  of 
those  obligations  and  duties. 

It  is  equally  obvious,  that  the  act  in  question  is  foreign  to  the 
judiciary  department.  The  province  of  that  department  is  to  de- 
cide litigations  in  particular  cases.  It  is  indeed  charged  with  the 
interpretation  of  treaties,  but  it  exercises  this  function  only  «here 
contending  parties  bring  before  it  a  specific  controversy.  It  has 
no  concern  with  pronouncing  upon  the  external  political  relation&amp; 
*  See  Vatel,  Book  III,  Chap.  7,  Sec.  113. 
54 


U%  LETTERS  OF 

of  treaties  between  government  and  gorernment.      This  position 
is  too  plain  to  need  being  insisted  upon. 

It  myst  then  of  necessity  beh)ng  to  the  executive  department  to 
exercise  the  function  in  question,  when  a  proper  case  for  it  occurs. 

It  appears  to  be  connected  witii  that  department  iu  various  ca- 
pacities: — As  the  organ  of  intercourse  between  the  nation  and 
foreign  nations  ;  as  the  interpreter  of  the  national  treaties,  in  those 
cases  in  which  the  judiciary  is  not  competent,  that  is,  between 
government  and  government ;  as  the  power  vvhicii  is  charged  with 
the  execution  of  the  laws,  of  which  treaties  form  a  ])art  ;  as  tliat 
which  is  charged  with  tlie  command  and  disposition  of  tlie  pubhc 
force. 

This  view  of  the  subject  is  so  natural  and  obvious,  so  analogous 
to  general  theory  and  practice,  that  no  doubt  can  be  entertained 
of  its  justness,  unless  to  be  deduced  from  particular  provisions  of 
the  constitution  of  the  United  States. 

Let  us  see,  then,  if  cause  for  such  doubt  is  to  be  found  there. 

The  second  article  of  the  constitution  of  the  United  States,  sec- 
tion first,  establishes  this  general  proposition,  that  "  the  executive 
"  povTER  shall  be  vested  in  a  piesideut  of  the  United  States  of 
"  America." 

The  same  article,  in  a  succeeding  section,  proceeds  to  delineate 
particular  cases  of  executive  power.  It  declares,  among  other 
things,  that  the  president  shall  be  comtnander  in  chief  of  the  army 
and  navy  of  the  United  States,  and  of  the  militia  of  the  several 
states,  when  called  into  the  actual  service  of  the  United  States  ; 
that  he  shall  have  power,  by  and  with  the  advice  and  consent  of 
the  senate,  to  make  treaties  ;  that  it  shall  be  his  duty  to  receive 
ambassadors  and  other  public  ministers,  audio  take  care  that  the 
laios  be  faithfully  executed. 

It  would  not  consist  with  the  rules  of  sound  construction,  to 
consider  this  enumeration  of  particular  authorities  as  derogating 
from  the  more  comprehensive  grant  in  the  general  clause,  further 
than  as  it  may  be  coupled  with  express  restrictions  or  limitations  ; 
as  in  regard  to  the  cooperation  of  the  senate  in  the  appointment 
of  officers,  and  the  making  of  treaties  ;  which  are  plainly  quali- 
fications of  the  general  executive  powers  of  appointing  officers 
and  making  treaties.  The  difficulty  of  a  complete  enumeration 
of  all  the  cases  of  executive  authority,  would  naturally  dictate 
the  use  of  general  terms,  and  would  render  it  improbable,  that  a 
specification  of  certain  particulars  was  designed  as  a  substitute 
for  those  terms,  when  antecedently  used.  The  different  mode  of 
expression  employed  in  the  constitution,  in  regard  to  the  two  pow- 


PACIFICUS.  443 

ers,  the  legislative  and  the  executive,  serves  to  confirm  this  infer- 
ence. In  the  article  which  gives  the  legislative  powers  of  the  gov- 
ernment, the  expressions  are,  "  All  legislative  powers  herein  grant- 
"  eel  shall  be  vested  in  a  congress  of  the  United  Slates."  In  that 
which  grants  the  executive  power,  the  expressions  are,  "  The  ex- 
^^  ecutive  power  shall  be  vested  in  a  president  of  the  United  States." 

The  enumeration  ought  therefore  to  be  considered,  as  intended 
merely  to  specify  the  principal  articles  implied  in  the  definition  of 
executive  power  ;  leaving  the  rest  to  flow  from  the  general  grant 
of  that  power,  interpreted  in  conformity  "with  other  parts  of  the 
constitution,  and  with  the  principles  of  free  government. 

The  general  doctrine  of  our  constitution  then  is,  that  the  execu- 
tive power  of  the  nation  is  vested  in  the  president;  subject  only  to 
the  exceptions  and  qiialif  cations,  which  are  expressed  in  the  instru- 
ment. 

Two  of  these  have  been  already  noticed;  the  participation  of 
the  senate  in  the  appointment  of  officers,  and  in  the  making  of 
treaties.  A  third  remains  to  be  mentioned  ;  the  right  of  the  leg- 
islature "  to  declare  war,  and  grant  letters  of  marque  and  repri- 
sal." 

With  these  exceptions,  the  executive  potcer  of  the  United  States 
is  completely  lodged  in  the  president.  This  mode  of  construing 
the  constitution  has  indeed  been  recognised  by  congress  in  formal 
acts,  upon  full  consideration  and  debate  ;  of  which  the  power  of 
removal  from  office  is  an  important  instance.  It  will  follow,  that 
if  a  proclamation  of  neutrality  is  merely  an  executive  act,  as,  it 
is  believed,  has  been  shown,  the  step  which  has  been  taken  by  the 
president  is  liable  to  no  just  exception  on  the  score  of  authority. 

It  may  be  said,  that  this  inference  would  be  just,  if  the  power 
of  declaring  war  had  not  been  vested  in  the  legislature  ;  but  that 
this  power  naturally  includes  the  right  of  judging,  whether  the 
nation  is  or  is  not  under  obligations  to  make  war. 

The  answer  is,  that  however  true  this  position  may  be,  it  will 
not  follow,  that  the  executive  is  in  any  case  excluded  from  a  simi- 
lar right  of  judgment,  in  the  execution  of  its  own  functions. 

If  on  the  one  hand,  the  legislature  have  a  right  to  declare  war, 
it  is,  on  the  other,  the  duty  of  the  executive  to  preserve  peace,  till 
the  declaration  is  made ;  and  in  fulfilling  this  duty,  it  nmst  neces 
sarily  possess  a  right  of  judging  what  is  the  nature  of  the  obliga- 
tions which  the  treaties  of  the  country  impose  on  the  government: 
and  when  it  has  concluded  that  there  is  nothing  in  them  inconsist- 
ent with  neutrality,  it  becomes  both  its  province  and  its  duty  to 
enforce  the  laws  incident  to  that  state  of  the  nation.     The  execu- 


444  LETTERS  OF 

live  is  charged  with  the  execution  of  all  laws,  the  law  of  nations, 
as  well  as  the  municipal  law,  by  which  the  former  are  recognised 
and  a;!oj)t(^d.  It  is  consequently  bi)und,  by  executing-  faithfully 
the  laws  of  neutrality,  when  the  country  is  in  a  neutral  position, 
to  avoid    giving  cause  of  war  to  foreign  powers. 

This  is  the  direct  end  of  the  proclamation  of  neutrality.  It 
declares  to  the  United  States  their  situation  with  regard  to  the 
contending  parties,  and  makes  known  to  the  comuiunity,  that  the 
laws  incident  to  that  state  will  be  enforced.  In  doing  this,  it  con- 
forms to  an  established  usage  of  nations,  the  operation  of  which, 
as  before  remarked,  is  to  obviate  a  responsibility  on  the  part  of 
the  whole  society,  for  secret  and  unknown  violations  of  the  rights 
of  ;iny  of  the  warring  powers  by  its  citizens. 

Those  who  object  to  the  proclamation  will  readily  admit,  that 
it  i.-;  1  11  and  duty  of  the  executive  t(»  interpret  those  articles 
of  onr  treaties  which  give  to  France  particular  privileges,  in  order 
to  the  enforcement  of  them:  but  the  necessary  consequence  of 
this  is,  that  the  executive  must  judge  what  are  their  proper  limits; 
what  rights  are  &lt;iiveu  to  other  nations,  by  our  contracts  with  them  ; 
what  riiihts  the  law  of  nature  and  nations  gives,  and  our  treaties 
permit,  in  respect  to  those  countries  with  which  we  have  none  ;  in 
fine,  what  are  the  reciprocal  rights  and  obligations  of  the  United 
States,  and  of  all  and  each  of  the  powers  at  war. 

The  riiiht  of  the  executive  to  receive  ambassadors  and  other 
public  uiinisters,  may  serve  to  illustrate  the  relative  duties  of  the 
executive  and  h  gislative  departments.  This  right  includes  that 
of  judging,  in  the  case  of  a  revolution  of  government  in  a  foreign 
country,  whetlier  the  new  rulers  are  competent  organs  of  the  na- 
tional will,  and  ought  to  be  recognised,  or  not;  which,  where  a 
treaty  antecedently  exists  between  the  United  States  and  such  na- 
tion, involves  the  power  of  continuing  or  suspending  its  operation. 
For  until  the  new  government  is  a!r^-rto?/7/cr/^erf,  the  tieaties  between 
the  nations,  so  far  at  least  as  regards  p?i6//c  rights,   are   of   course 

suspended. 

This  power  of  determining  virtually  upon  the  operation  of  na- 
tional tieaties,  as  a  consequence  of  the  power  to  receive  public 
ministers,  is  an  important  instance  of  the  right  of  the  executive, 
to  decide  upon  the  obligations  of  the  country  with  regard  to  for- 
eign nations.  To  apply  it  to  the  ease  of  France,  if  there  had 
been  a  treaty  of  alliance,  offensive  and  defensive,  between  the  Unit- 
ed States  and  that  country,  the  unqualified  acknowledgment  of 
the  new  government  would  have  put  the  United  States  in  a  condi- 
tion to  become  an  associate  in  the   war    with  France,   and  would 


PACIFICUS.  445 

have  laid  the  legislature  under  an  obligation,  if  required,  and  there 
was  othernise  no  valid  excuse,  of  exercising  its  power  of  declar- 
ing war. 

This  serves  as  an  example  of  the  right  of  the  executive  in  cer- 
tain cases,  to  determine  the  condition  of  the  nation,  thouo-h  it  may 
in  its  consequences,  affect  the  exeicise  of  the  power  of  the  leu-is- 
ture  to  declare  v\ar.  Nevertheless,  the  executive  cannot  thereby 
control  the  exercise  of  that  power.  The  legislature  is  still  free  to 
perform  its  duties,  according  tf)  its  own  sense  of  them  ;  thoui^h  the 
executive,  in  the  exercise  of  its  constitutional  powers,  may  estab- 
lish an  antecedent  state  of  things,  which  ought  to  weii'^h  in  the 
legislative  decisions. 

The  division  of  the  executive  power  in  the  constitution,  creates 
a  concurrent  authority  in  the  cases  to  which  it  relates. 

Hence,  in  the  instance  stated,  treaties  can  only  be  made  by  the 
president  and  senate  jointly  ;  but  their  activity  may  be  continued 
or  suspended  by  the  president  alone. 

No  objection  has  been  made  to  the  president's  having  acknowl- 
edged the  republic  of  France,  by  the  reception  of  its  minister 
without  having  consulted  the  senate  ;  though  that  body  is  connect- 
ed with  him  in  tlie  making  of  treaties,  and  though  the  consequence 
of  his  act  of  reception  is,  to  give  operation  to  those  heretofore 
made  with  that  country.  But  he  is  censured  for  having  declared 
the  United  States  to  be  in  a  state  of  peace  and  neutrality,  with  re- 
gard to  the  powers  at  war;  because  the  right  of  changing  that 
state,  and  declaring  war,  belongs  to  the  legislature. 

It  deserves  to  be  remarked,  that  as  the  participation  of  the  sen- 
ate in  the  making  of  treaties,  and  the  power  of  the  legislature  to 
declare  war,  are  exceptions  out  of  the  general  "  executive  power" 
vested  in  the  president ;  they  are  to  be  construed  strictly,  and 
ought  to  be  extended  no  further  than  is  essential  to  their  execu- 
tion. 

While,  therefore,  the  legislature  can  alone  declare  war,  can 
alone  actually  transfer  the  nation  from  a  state  of  peace  to  a  state 
of  hostility,  it  belongs  to  the  "  executive  power"  to  do  whatever 
else  the  law  of  nations,  cooperating  with  the  treaties  of  the  coun- 
try, enjoin  in  the  intercourse  of  the  United  States  with  foreign 
powers. 

In  this  distribution  of  authority,  the  wisdom  of  our  constitution 

is  manifested.     It  is  the   province  and    duty  of   the  executive   to 

preserve  to  the  nation    the   blessings   of   peace.      The   leo-islature 

alone  can  interrupt  them  by  placing  the  nation  in  a  state  of  war. 

But  though  it  has  been  thought  advisable  to  vindicate  the  author- 


446  LETTERS  OF 

ity  of  the  executive  on  this  broad  and  comprehensive  ground,  it 
was  not  absolutely  necessary  to  do  so.  Tliat  clause  of  the  con- 
stitution which  makes  it  his  duty  to  "  take  care  that  the  laws  be 
"  faithfully  executed,"  might  alone  have  been  relied  upon,  and  this 
simple  process  of  argument  pursued. 

The  president  is  the  constitutional  executor  of  the  laws.  Our 
treaties,  and  the  laws  of  nations,  form  a  part  of  the  law  of  the 
land.  He,  who  is  to  execute  the  laws,  must  first  judge  for  him- 
self of  their  meaning.  In  order  to  the  observance  of  that  con- 
duct which  the  laws  of  nations,  combined  with  our  treaties,  pre- 
scribed to  this  country,  in  reference  to  the  present  war  in  Europe, 
it  was  necessary  for  the  president  to  judge  for  himself,  whether 
there  was  any  thing  in  our  treaties,  incompatible  with  an  adher- 
ence to  neutrality.  Having  decided  that  there  was  not,  he  had  a 
right,  and  if  in  his  opinion  the  interest  of  the  nation  required  it,  it 
was  his  duty  as  executor  of  the  laws,  to  proclaim  the  neutrality  of 
the  nation,  to  exhort  all  persons  to  observe  it,  and  to  warn  them 
of  the  penalties  which  would  attend  its  non-observance. 

The  proclamation  has  been  represented  as  enacting  some  new 
law.  This  is  a  view  of  it  entirely  erroneous.  It  only  proclaims 
^fact,  with  regard  to  the  existing  state  of  the  nation  ;  informs  the 
citizens  of  what  the  laws  previously  established  require  of  them 
in  that  state,  and  notifies  them  that  these  laws  will  be  put  in  exe- 
cution against  the  infractors  of  them. 


NO.  XL 

The  second  and  principal  objection  to  the  proclamation,  name- 
ly, that  it  is  inconsistent  with  the  treaties  between  the  United 
States  and  France,  will  now  be  examined. 

It  has  been  already  shown,  that  it  does  not  militate  against  the 
performance  of  any  of  the  stipulations  in  those  treaties,  which 
would  not  make  us  an  associate  or  party  in  the  war,  and  especial- 
ly that  it  does  not  interfere  with  the  privileges  secured  to  France 
by  the  seventeenth  and  twenty-second  articles  of  the  treaty  of 
commerce  ;  which,  except  the  clause  of  guaranty,  constitute  the 
most  material  discriminations  to  be  found  in  our  treaties  in  favour 
of  that  country. 

Official  documents  have  likewise  appeared  in  the  public  papers, 
which  serve  as  a  comment  upon  the  sense  of  the  proclamation  in 
this  particular,  proving  that  it  was  not  deemed  by  the  executive 
incompatible  with  the  performance  of  the  stipulations  in  those  ar- 
ticles, and  that  in  practice  they  are  intended  to  be  observed. 


PACIFICUS.  447 

It  has,  however,  been  admitted,  that  the  declaration  of  neutrali- 
ty excludes  tlie  idea  of  an  execution  of  the  clause  of  guaranty. 

It  becomes  necessary  therefore  to  examine,  whether  the  United 
States  would  have  a  valid  justification  for  not  complying  wilh  it, 
in  case  of  their  being  called  upon  for  that  purpose  by  France. 

Without  knowing  how  far  the  reasons  which  have  occurred  to 
me  may  have  influenced  the  president,  there  appear  to  me  to  exist 
very  good  and  substantial  grounds  for  a  refusal. 

The  alliance  between  the  United  States  and  France,  is  of  the 
defensive  kind.  In  the  caption,  it  is  denominated  a  "treaty  of 
♦'alliance  eventual  and  defensive."  In  the  body  (article  the  sec- 
ond) it  is  called  a  defensive  alliance.  The  words  of  that  article 
are  as  follows  :  "  The  essential  and  direct  end  of  the  present 
"defensive  alliance  is  to  maintain  effectually  the  liberty,  sove- 
"  reignty,  and  independence,  absolute  and  unlimited,  of  the  Unit- 
*'  ed  States,  as  well  in  matters  of  government,  as  of  commerce." 

The  leading  character  then  of  our  alliance  with  France  be- 
ing defensive,  it  will  follow  that  the  n)eaning,  obligation,  and  force 
of  every  stipulation  in  the  treaty,  must  be  tested  by  the  principles 
of  such  an  alliance  ;  unless  in  any  instance  terms  have  been  used 
which  clearly  and  unequivocally  denoted  a  different  intent. 

The  principal  question  consequently  is  :  what  is  the  nature  and 
effect  of  a  defensive  alliance  1  When  does  the  casus  foederis  take 
place  in  relation  to  it  ? 

Reason,  the  concurring  opinions  of  writers,  and  the  practice  of 
nations,  will  all  answer:  "  W^hen  either  of  the  allies  is  attachd, 
when  "  war  is  made  upon  him,  not  when  he  makes  war  upon  anotkc?-  :^^ 
in  other  words,  the  stipulated  assistance  is  to  be  given  "when  our 
"  ally  is  engaged  in  a  defensive,  not  when  he  is  engaged  in  an  of- 
*'  fensive  war."  This  obligation  to  assist  only  in  a  defensive  war, 
constitutes  the  essential  difference  between  an  alliance  which  is 
merely  defensive,  and  one  which  is  both  offensive  and  defensive. 
In  the  latter  case,  there  is  an  obligation  to  cooperate  as  well  when 
the  war,  on  the  part  of  our  ally,  is  of  the  latter,  as  when  it  is  of 
the  former  description.  To  affirm,  therefore,  that  the  United 
States  are  bound  to  assist  France  in  the  war  in  which  she  is  at 
present  engaged,  will  be  to  convert  our  treaty  with  her  into  an  alli- 
ance offensive  and  defensive,  contrary  to  the  express  and  reiterated 
declarations  of  the  instrument  itself. 

This  assertion  implies,  that  the  war  in  question  is  an  offensive 
war  on  the  part  of  France. 

And  so  it  undoubtedly  is,  with  regard  to  all  the  powers  with  whom 
she  was  at  war,  at  the  time  of  issuing  the  proclamation. 


448  LETTERS  OF 

No  position  is  better  established,  than  that  the  nation  which  first 
declares,  or  actually  begins  a  war,  whatever  may  have  been  the 
causes  leading  to  it,  is  that  which  makes  an  offensive  war.  Nor  is 
there  any  doubt,  that  France  first  declared  and  began  the  war, 
against  Austria,  Prussia,  Savoy,  Holland,  England,  and  Spain. 

Upon  this  point,  there  is  apt  to  be  some  incorrectness  of  ideas. 
Those  who  liave  not  examined  subjects  of  such  a  nature,  are  led 
to  imagine  that  the  party  which  commits  the  first  injury,  or  gives 
the  first  provocation,  is  on  the  off'ensive  side,  though  hostilities  are 
actually  begun  by  the  other  party. 

But  the  cause  or  the  occasion  of  the  war,  and  the  war  itself,  are 
thino"s  entirely  distinct.  It  is  the  commencement  of  the  war  itself 
which  decides  the  question,  whether  it  be  ofiensive  or  defensive. 
All  writers  on  the  laws  of  nations  agree  in  this  doctrine;  but  it  is 
most  accurately  laid  down  in  the  following  extracts  from  Burle- 
maqui.* 

"  Neither  are  we  to  believe  (says  he)  that  he  who  first  injures 
"  another,  begins  by  that  an  offensive  war,  and  that  the  other  who 
"  demands  the  satisfaction  for  the  injury  received,  is  always  on  the 
"  defensive.  There  are  a  great  many  unjust  acts,  which  may 
"  kindle  a  war,  and  which,  however,  are  not  the  war  itself;  as  the 
•'  ill  treatment  of  a  prince's  ambassadors,  the  plundering  of  his 
•'  subjects,  &amp;c." 

If,  therefore,  we  take  up  arms  to  revenge  such  an  unjust  act,  we 
commence  an  offensive,  but  a  just  war ;  and  the  prince  who  has 
done  the  injury,  and  will  not  give  satisfaction,  makes  a  defensivCj 
but  an  unjust  war- 

We  must  therefore  affirm,  in  general,  that  the  first  who  takes 
up  arms,  whether  justly  or  unjustly,  commences  an  offensive  war  ; 
and  he  who  opposes  him,  whether  with  or  without  reason,  begins  a 
defensive  war. 

France  then  being  on  the  oflfensive  in  the  present  war,  and  our 
alliance  with  her  being  defensive  only,  it  follows,  that  the  casus 
foederis.,  or  condition  of  our  guaranty,  cannot  take  place;  and  that 
the  United  States  are  free  to  refuse  a  performance  of  that  guaran- 
ty, if  demanded. 

Those  who  are  disposed  to  justify  indiscriminately  every  thing 
in  the  conduct  of  France,  may  reply  that  though  the  war,  in  point 
of  form,  may  be  off'ensive  on  her  part,  yet  in  point  of  principle,  it 
is  defensive  ;  was  in  each  instance  a  mere  anticipation  of  attacks 
meditated  against  her,  and  was  justified  by  previous  aggressions  of 
the  opposite  parties. 

*  Vol.  II,  Book  IV,  Chap.  Ill,  Sec.  4,  5. 


PACIFICUS.  449 

It  is  believed  that  it  would  be  a  sufficient  answer  to  this  obser- 
vation to  say,  that  in  determining  the  legal  and  positive  obligations 
of  the  United  States,  the  only  point  of  inquiry  is,  whether  the  war 
was  in  fact  begun  by  France,  or  by  her  enemies  ;  that  all  lieyond  this 
is  too  vague,  too  liable  to  dispute,  too  much  matter  of  opinion  to 
be  a  proper  criterion  of  national  conduct  ;  that  when  a  war  breaks 
out  between  two  nations,  all  others,  in  regard  to  the  positive  rights 
of  the  parties,  and  their  positive  duties  towards  thent,  are  hound 
to  consider  it  as  equally  just  on  both  sides  ;  that  consequently  in  a 
defensive  alliance,  when  war  is  made  upon  one  of  the  allies,  it  is 
the  duty  of  the  other  to  fulfil  the  conditions  stipulated  on  its  part, 
without  inquiry,  whether  the  war  is  rightfully  begun  or  not;  as  on 
the  other  hand,  when  war  is  commenced  by  one  of  the  allies,  the 
other  is  exempted  from  the  obligation  to  assist,  however  just  the 
commencement  of  it  may  have  been. 

l!* his  doctrine  is  founded  upon  the  utility  of  clear  and  certain 
rules  for  determining  the  reciprocal  dutirs  of  nations,  in  order 
that  as  little  as  possible  may  be  left  to  opinion,  and  to  the  subter- 
fuges of  an  over-refining  or  unfaithful  casuistry. 

Some  writers  indeed  of  high  authority  affirm,  that  it  is  a  tacit 
condition  of  every  alliance,  that  one  ally  is  not  bound  to  assist  the 
other  in  a  war  manifestly  unjust.  But  this  is  questioned  by  other 
respectable  authorities  on  the  grf&gt;und  which  has  been  slated.  And 
though  the  manifest  injustice  of  the  war  has  been  affirmed  by 
some,  to  be  a  good  cause  for  not  executing  the  formal  obligations 
of  a  treaty,  I  have  nowhere  seen  it  maintained,  that  the  abstract 
justice  of  a  war  will  of  itself  oblige  a  nation  to  do  what  its  formal 
obligations  do  not  enjoin  :  if  this  however  were  not  the  true  doc- 
trine, an  impartial  examination  would  prove,  that  with  respect  to 
some  of  the  powers,  France  is  not  blameless  in  the  circumstances 
which  preceded  and  led  to  the  war;  that  if  she  received,  she  also 
gave  causes  of  offence,  and  that  the  justice  of  the  war,  on  her 
side,  is  in  those  eases  not  a  little  problematical. 

There  are  prudential  reasons,  which  dissuade  from  going  large- 
ly into  this  examination,  unless  it  shall  be  rendered  necessary  by 
the  future  turn  of  the  discussion. 

It  will  be  sufficient  here  to  notice  cursorily  the  following  facts: 

France  committed  an  aggression  upon  Holland,  in  declaring  the 
navigation  of  the  Scheldt  free,  and  acting  upon  that  declaration  ; 
contrary  to  treaties  in  which  she  had  explicitly  acknowledged, 
and  even  guarantied,  the  exclusive  right  of  Holland  to  the  use  of 
that  river ;  and  contrary  also  to  the  doctrines  of  the  best  writers, 
and  the  established  usages  of  nations  in  such  cases. 
55 


450  LETTERS  OF 

She  gave  a  general  and  very  serious  cause  of  alarm  and  um- 
brage by  the  decree  of  the  19th  of  November,  1792,  whereby  the 
convention,  in  the  name  of  the  French  nation,  declare,  that  they 
will  grant  fraternity  and  assistance  to  evei'y  people  who  wish  to 
recover  their  liberty  ;  and  charge  the  executive  power  to  send  the 
necessary  orders  to  the  generals  to  give  assistance  to  such  people, 
and  to  defend  those  citizens  who  have  been,  or  who  may  be  vexed 
for  the  cause  of  liberty  ;  which  decree  was  ordered  to  be  printed 
in  all  languages. 

This  very  extraordinary  decr-e  amounted  exactly  to  what 
France  herself  had  most  complained  of;  an  interference  by  one 
nation  in  tie  internal  gr&gt;vernnient  of  another. 

When  a  nation  has  actually  come  to  a  resolution  to  throw  off  a 
yoke,  under  which  it  may  have  groaned,  and  to  assert  its  liberties, 
it  is  justifiable  and  meritorious  in  another,  to  afford  assistance  to 
the  one  which  has  been  oppressed,  and  is  in  the  act  of  liberating 
itself;  but  it  is  not  warrantable  for  any  nation  beforehand,  to  hold 
out  a  general  invitation  to  insurrection  and  revolution,  by  promis- 
ing to  assist  every  people  who  may  wish  to  recover  their  liberty, 
and  to  defend  those  citizens  of  every  country,  who  have  been,  or 
who  may  be  vexed  for  the  cause  of  liberty ;  still  less  to  commit  to 
the  generals  of  its  armies  the  discreiionary  power  of  judging, 
when  the  citizens  of  a  foreign  country  have  been  vexed  for  the 
cause  of  liberty  by  their  own  government. 

For  Vatel  justly  observes,  as  a  consequence  of  the  liberty  and 
independence  of  nations,  "that  it  does  not  belong  to  any  foreign 
•'  power,  to  take  cognizance  of  the  administration  of  a  sovereign 
♦*  of  another  country,  to  set  himself  up  as  a  judge  of  his  conduct, 
"or  to  oblige  him  to  alter  it." 

It  had  a  natural  tendency  to  disturb  the  tranquillity  of  nations, 
and  to  excite  everywhere  fermentation  and  revolt:  it  therefore 
justified  neutral  powers,  who  were  in  a  situation  to  be  affected  by 
it,  in  taking  measures  to  repress  the  spirit  by  which  it  had  been 
dictated. 

But  the  principle  of  that  decree  received  a  more  particular  ap- 
plication to  Great  Britain,  by  some  subsequent  circumstances. 

Among  thp  proofs  of  this  are  two  answers,  which  were  given 
by  the  president  of  the  national  convention,  at  a  public  sitting  on 
the  28th  of  November,  to  two  different  addresses;  one  presented 
by  a  deputation  from  "  the  society  for  constitutional  information 
in  London,"  the  other  by  a  deputation  of  English  and  Irish  citi- 
zens at  Paris. 

The  following  are  extracts  from  these  answers  : 


PACIFICUS.  451 

"The  shades  of  Penn,  of  Hambden,  and  of  Sidney, hover  over 
"your  heads;  and  the  moment,  without  doubt,  approaches,  in 
"  which  the  French  will  bring  congratulations  to  the  national  con- 
"  vention  of  Great  Britain." 

"  Nature  and  principles  draw  towards  us  England,  Scotland, 
"and  Ireland.  Let  the  cries  of  friendship  resound  through  the 
"  two  republics"...."  Principles  are  waging  war  against  tyranny, 
"  which  will  fall  under  the  blows  of  philosophy.  Rovalty  in  Eu- 
"  rope  is  either  destroyed  or  on  the  point  of  perishing,  on  the  ru- 
"  ins  of  feudality  :  and  the  declaration  of  rights  placed  by  the 
"side  of  thrones,  is  a  devouring  fire  which  will  consume  theiu.... 
"Worthy  Republicans,"  «fec. 

Declarations  of  this  sort,  cannot  but  be  viewed  as  a  direct  ap- 
plication of  the  principle  of  the  decree  to  Great  Britain  ;  and  as  an 
open  patroriage  of  a  revolution  in  that  country  :  a  conduct  which, 
proceeding  from  the  head  of  the  body  that  governed  France,  in 
the  presence  and  on  behalf  of  that  body,  was  unquestionably  an 
offence  and  injury  to  the  nation  to  which  it  is  related. 

The  decree  of  the  15th  of  November,  is  a  further  cause  of  of- 
fence to  all  the  governments  of  Europe.  By  that  decree,  "  the 
"French  nation  declares,  that  it  will  treat  as  enemies  the  people, 
"  who,  refusing  or  renouncing  liberty  and  equality,  are  desirous  of 
"  preserving  their  prince  and  privileged  casts,  or  of  entering  into 
"  an  accommodation  with  them,"  &amp;c.  This  decree  was  little 
short  of  a  declaration  of  war  against  all  nations  having  princes 
and  privileged  classes. 

The  formal  and  definitive  annexation  to  France  of  the  territo- 
ries over  which  her  arms  had  temporarily  prevailed,  is  another 
violation  of  just  and  moderate  principles,  into  which  the  conven- 
tion was  betrayed  by  an  intemperate  zeal,  if  not  by  a  culpable 
ambition  ;  and  of  a  nature  to  justify  the  jealousy  and  ill-will  of 
every  neighbouring  state. 

The  laws  of  nations  give  to  a  power  at  war  nothing  more  than 
a  usufructuary  or  possessory  right  to  the  territories  which  it  ac- 
quires ;  suspending  the  absolute  property  and  dominion,  till  a  trea- 
ty of  peace,  or  something  equivalent,  shall  have  ceded  or  relin- 
quished the  conquered  territory  to  the  conqueror.  This  rule  is 
one  of  primary  importance  to  the  tranquillity  and  security  of  na- 
tions....facilitating  an  adjustment  of  their  quarrels,  and  the  pres- 
ervation of  ancient  limits. 

But  France,  by  incorporating  with  herself  in  several  instances 
the  territories  she  had  acquired,  violated  that  rule,  and  multiplied 
infinitely  the  obstacles  to  peace  and  accommodation.     The  doo 


452  LETTERS  OF 

trine  that  a  nation  cannot  consent  to  its  own  dismemberment,  but 
in  a  case  of  extreme  necessity,  immediately  attached  itself  to  all 
the  cmqiiered  tenitorifjs  ;  while  the  projiressive  aniiinentation  of 
the  (I'tiiiiiuoii!--  of  the  most  powerful  empire  in  Europe,  on  a  prin- 
ciple not  of  temporary  possession,  but  of  permanent  acquisition, 
threatened  the  independence  of  all  other  countries,  and  gave  to 
neighbourinj^  neutral  powers  the  justest  cause  of  discontent  and 
apprehension.  It  is  a  principle  well  agreed,  and  founded  on  sub- 
stantial reasons,  that  whenever  a  ])articular  state  adopts  maxims 
of  conduct  contrary  to  those  generally  established  among  nations, 
calculated  to  interrupt  their  tranquillity  and  to  expose  their  safety, 
they  may  justifiably  make  common  cause  to  resist  and  control  the 
state  which  manifests  a  disposition  so  suspicious  and  exceptiona- 
ble. 

Whatever  partiality  may  be  entertained  for  the  goneral  object 
of  the  French  revolution,  it  is  impossible  for  any  well-informed  or 
sober-minded  man,  n(»t  to  condemn  the  proceedings  which  have 
been  stated,  as  repugnant  to  the  rights  of  nations,  to  the  true  prin- 
ciples of  liberty,  to  the  freedom  of  oj)inion  of  mankind  ;  or  not 
to  acknowledge  as  a  consequence  of  this,  that  the  justice  of  the 
war  on  the  part  of  France,  with  regard  to  some  of  the  powers 
with  which  she  is  engaged,  is  from  those  causes  questionable 
eimugh  to  free  the  United  States  from  all  endiarrassment  on  that 
score,  if  indeed  it  be  at  all  incumbent  upon  them  to  go  into  the 
inquiry. 

The  policy  of  a  defensive  alliance  is  so  essentially  distinct  from 
that  of  an  offensive  one,  that  it  is  every  way  important  not  to  con- 
found their  effects.  The  first  kind  has  in  view  the  prudent  object 
of  mutual  defence,  when  either  of  the  allies  is  involuntarily  forced 
into  a  war  by  the  attack  of  some  third  power.  The  latter  subjects 
the  peace  of  each  ally  to  the  will  of  the  other,  and  obliges  each  to 
partake  in  the  other's  wars  of  policy  and  interest,  as  well  as  in 
those  of  safety  and  defence.  To  preserve  their  boundaries  dis- 
tinct, it  is  necessary  that  each  kind  should  be  governed  by  plain 
and  obvious  rules. 

This  would  not  be  the  case,  if  instead  of  taking  as  a  guide  the 
simple  fact  of  who  began  the  war,  it  was  necessary  to  travel  into 
metaphysical  niceties  about  the  justice  or  injustice  of  the  causes 
which  led  to  it : 

Inasmuch  also  as  the  not  furnishing  a  stipulated  succour,  when 
it  is  due,  is  itself  a  cause  of  war,  it  is  very  requisite  that  there 
should  be  some  palpable  criterion  for  ascertaining,  when  it  is  due. 
This  criterion,  as  before  observed,  in  a  defensive   alliance,  is  the 


PACIFICUS.  453 

commencement  or  not,  of  the  war  by  our  ally,  as  a  mere  matter 
of  fact. 

Other  topics,  serving  to  ilhistrate  the  position  tliat  the  United 
States  are  not  bound  to  execute  the  chiuse  of  guaranty,  are  reserv- 
ed for  another  paper. 


NO.  III. 

France,  at  the  time  of  issuing  the  proclamation,  was  engaged 
in  war  with  a  considerable  part  of  Europe,  and  likely  to  be  em- 
broiled with  almost  all  the  rest,  without  a  single  ally  in  that  quar- 
ter of  the  globe. 

In  such  a  situation,  it  is  evident,  that  however  she  may  be  able 
to  defend  herself  at  home,  of  which  her  factions  and  internal  agi- 
tations furnish  the  oidy  serious  doubt,  she  cannot  make  external 
efforts  in  any  degree  proportioned  to  those  which  can  be  made 
against  her. 

This  state  of  things  alone  discharges  the  United  States  from  an 
obligation  to  embark  in  her  quarrel. 

It  is  known,  that  we  are  wholly  destitute  of  naval  force.  France, 
•with  all  the  great  maritime  powers  united  against  her,  is  unable  to 
supply  this  deficiency.  She  cannot  afford  us  that  species  of  coop- 
eration which  is  necessary  to  render  our  efforts  useful  to  her,  and 
to  prevent  our  experiencing  the  destruction  of  our  trade,  and  the 
most  calamitous  inconveniences  in  other  respects. 

Our  guaranty  does  not  look  to  France  herself.  It  does  not  re- 
late to  her  immediate  defence,  but  to  the  defence  and  preservation 
of  her  American  colonies;  objects  of  which  she  might  be  depriv- 
ed, and  yet  remain  a  great,  a  powerful,  and  a  happy  nation. 

In  the  actual  situation  of  this  country,  and  in  relation  to  a  mat- 
ter of  only  secondary  importance  to  France,  it  may  fairly  be 
maintained,  that  an  ability  in  her  to  supply,  in  a  competent  de- 
gree, our  deficiency  of  naval  force,  is  a  condition  of  our  obligation 
to  perform  the  guaranty  on  our  part. 

Had  the  United  States  a  powerful  marine,  or  could  they  com- 
mand one  in  time,  this  reasoning  would  not  be  solid  ;  but  circum- 
stanced as  they  are,  it  is  presumed  to  be  well  founded. 

There  would  be  no  proportion  between  the  mischiefs  and  perils 
to  which  the  United  States  would  expose  themselves,  by  embark- 
ing in  the  war,  and  the  benefit  which  the  nature  of  their  stipula- 
tion aims  at  securing  to  France,  or  that  which  it  would  be  in  their 
power  actually  to  render  her  by  becoming  a  party. 


454  LETTERS  OF 

This  disproportion  would  be  a  valid  reason  for  not  executing 
the  guaranty.  All  contracts  are  to  receive  a  reasonable  construc- 
tion. Self-preservation  is  the  first  duty  of  a  nation  ;  and  though 
in  the  performance  of  stipulations  relating  to  war,  good  faith  re- 
quires that  its  ordinary  hazards  should  be  fairly  met,  because  they 
are  directly  contemplated  by  such  stipulations,  yet  it  does  not  re- 
quire that  extraordinary  and  extreme  hazards  should  be  run  ;  es- 
pecially where  the  object  to  be  gained  or  secured  is  only  a  partial 
or  particular  interest  of  the  ally,  for  whom  they  are  to  be  encoun- 
tered. 

As  in  the  present  instance,  good  faith  does  not  require  that  the 
United  States  should  put  in  jeopardy  their  essential  interests,  per- 
haps their  very  existence,  in  one  of  the  most  unequal  contests  in 
which  a  nation  could  be  engaged,  to  secure  to  France. ...what  1 
Her  West  India  islands  and  other  less  important  possessions  in 
America.  For  it  is  always  to  be  remembered,  that  the  stipulations 
of  the  United  States  do,  in  no  event,  reach  beyond  this  point.  If 
they  were,  upon  the  strength  of  their  guaranty,  to  engage  in  the 
war,  and  could  make  any  arrangement  with  the  belligerant  pow- 
ers, for  securing  to  France  those  islands  and  those  possessions, 
they  would  be  at  perfect  liberty  instantly  to  withdraw.  They 
would  not  be  bound  to  prosecute  the  war  one  moment  longer. 

They  are  under  no  obligation  in  any  event,  as  far  as  the  faith  of 
treaties  is  concerned,  to  assist  France  in  defence  of  her  liberty  ;  a 
topic  on  which  so  much  has  been  said,  so  very  little  to  the  purpose, 
as  it  regards  the  present  question. 

The  contest  in  which  the  United  States  would  phinge  them- 
selves, were  they  to  take  part  with  France,  would  possibly  be  still 
more  unequal  than  that  in  which  France  herself  is  engaged.  With 
the  possessions  of  Great  Britain  and  Spain  on  both  flanks,  the 
numerous  Indian  tribes  under  the  influence  and  direction  of  those 
powers,  along  our  whole  iuteriour  frontier,  with  a  long  extended 
seacoast,  with  no  maritime  force  of  our  own,  and  with  the  mari- 
time force  of  all  Europe  against  us,  with  no  fortifications  what- 
ever, and  with  a  population  not  exceeding  four  millions:  it  is  im- 
possible to  imagine  a  more  unequal  contest,  than  that  in  which  we 
should  be  involved  in  the  case  supposed.  From  such  a  contest  we 
are  dissuaded  by  the  most  cogent  motives  of  self-preservation,  no 
less  than  of  interest. 

We  may  learn  from  Vatel,  one  of  the  best  writers  on  the  laws 
of  nations,  that  "  if  a  state  which  has  promised  succours,  finds 
"  itself  unable  to  furnish  them,  its  very  inability  is  its  exemption  ; 
"  and  if  the  furnishing  the  succours  would  expose  it  to  an  evident 


PACIFICUS.  455 

•'  danger,  this  also  is  a  lawful  dispensation.  The  case  would  ren- 
"  der  the  treaty  pernicious  to  the  state,  and  therefore  not  oblioratory. 
"  But  this  appHes  to  an  imoiiueut  danger  threatening  the  safety  of 
"  the  state :  the  case  of  such  a  danger  is  tacitly  and  necessarily 
"  reserved  in  every  treaty."* 

If  too,  as  no  sensible  and  candid  man  will  deny,  the  extent  of 
the  present  combination  against  France,  is  in  a  degree  to  be  as- 
cribed to  imprudences  on  her  part;  the  exemption  to  the  United 
States  is  .«till  more  manifest  and  complete.  No  country  is  bound 
to  partake  in  hazards  of  the  most  critical  kind,  which  may  have 
been  produced  or  promoted  by  the  indiscretion  and  intemperance 
of  another.  This  is  an  obvious  dictate  of  reason,  with  which  the 
common  sense  and  common  practice  of  mankind  coincide. 

To  the  foregoing  considerations,  it  may  perhaps  be  added  with 
no  small  degree  of  force,  that  military  stipulations  in  national 
treaties,  contemplate  only  the  ordinary  case  of  foreign  war,  and 
are  irrelative  to  the  contests  which  grow  out  of  revolutions  of  gov- 
ernment ;  unless  where  they  have  express  reference  to  a  revolu- 
tion begun,  or  where  there  is  a  guaranty  of  the  existing  constitu- 
tion of  a  nation,  or  where  there  is  a  personal  alliance  for  the  de- 
fence of  a  prince  and  his  family. t 

The  revoluti(;n  in  France  is  llie  primitive  source  of  the  war  in 
which  she  is  engaged.  Tiie  restoration  of  the  monarchy  is  the 
avowed  object  of  some  of  her  enemies,  and  the  implied  one  of 
all.  That  question  then  is  essentially  involved  in  the  principle 
of  the  war ;  a  question  certainly  never  in  the  contemplation  of 
the  government  with  wliich  our  tieaty  was  made,  and  it  may  thence 
be  fairly  inferred,  never  intended  to  be  embraced  by  it. 

The  inference  is,  that  the  United  States  fulfilled  the  utmost  that 
could  be  claimed  by  the  nation  of  France,  when  they  so  far  re- 
spected its  decision  as  to  recognise  the  newly  constituted  author- 
ities;  giving  operation  to  the  treaty  of  alliance  for  future  occa- 
sions, but  considering  the  present  war  as  a  tacit  exception.  Per- 
haps too,  this  exception  is,  in  other  respects,  due  to  the  circum- 
stances under  which  the  engageme^  ,ts  between  the  two  countries 
were  contracted.  It  is  impossible,  prejudice  apart,  not  to  perceive 
a  delicate  embarrassment  between  the  theory  and  fact  of  our  po- 
litical relations  to  France. 

On,  these  grounds,  also,  as  well  as  that  of  the  present  war  being 
offensive  on  tiie  side  of  France,  the  United  States  have  valid  and 
honourable  pleas  to  offer  against  the   execution  of  the  guaranty, 

•See  Book  III,  Chap,  VI,  Sec.  92.  t  Puffendorf,  Book  VIII,  Chap.  IX,  Section  9. 


456  LETTERS  OF 

if  it  should  be  claimed  by  France.  And  the  president  was  in 
every  view  fully  justified  in  pronouncing,  that  the  duty  and  inter- 
est of  the  United  States  dictated  a  neutrality  in  the  war. 


No.  IV. 

A  THIRD  objection  to  the  proclamation  is,  that  it  is  inconsistent 
with  the  gratitude  due  to  France,  for  the  services  rendered  to  us 
in  our  revolution. 

Those  who  make  this  objection  disavow,  at  the  same  time,  all 
intention  to  maintain  the  position,  that  the  United  States  ought  to 
take  part  in  the  war.  They  profess  to  be  friends  to  our  remain- 
ing at  peace.     What  then  do  they  mean  by  the  objection  ? 

If  it  be  no  breach  of  gratitude  to  refrain  from  joining  France 
in  the  war,  how  can  it  be  a  breach  of  gratitude  to  declare,  that 
such  is  our  disposition  and  intention  1 

The  two  positions  are  at  variance  with  each  other;  and  the 
true  inference  is,  either  that  those  who  make  the  objection  really 
wish  to  engage  this  country  in  the  war,  or  that  they  seek  a  pretext 
for  censuring  the  conduct  of  tlie  chief  magistrate,  for  some  pur- 
pose very  different  from  the  public  good. 

They  endeavour  in  vain  to  elude  this  inference  by  saying,  that 
the  proclamation  places  France  upon  an  equal  footing  with  her 
0,^emies  ;  while  our  treaties  require  distinctions  in  her  favour,  and 
our  relativi."^  situation  would  dictate  kind  offices  to  her,  which  ought 
not  be  granted'  to  her  adversaries. 

They  are  not  igr.iorant,  that  the  proclamation  is  reconcilable 
with  both  those  objects,  as  far  as  they  have  any  foundation  in  truth 
or  propriety. 

It  has  been  shown,  that  the  promise  of  "  a  friendly  and  impar- 
"  tial  conduct"  towards  all  the  i-dli^aerant  powers,  is  not  incom- 
patible with  the  performance  of  any  st.-pulations  in  our  treaties, 
which  would  not  include  our  becoming  an  a&amp;^^ociate  in  the  war; 
and  it  has  been  observed,  that  the  conduct  of  the  e.Yeculive,  in  re- 
gard to  the  seventeenth  and  twenty-second  articles  of  fhe  treaty  of 
commerce,  is  an  unequivocal  comment  upon  the  terms.  They 
were,  indeed,  naturally  to  be  understood,  with  the  exception  of 
those  matters  of  positive  compact,  which  would  not  amount  to 
taking  part  in  the  war;  for  a  nation  then  observes  a  friendly  and 
impartial  conduct  towards  two  contending  powers,  when  it  only 
performs  to  one  of  them  what  it  is  obliged  to  do  by  stipulations  in 
antecedent  treaties,  which  do  not  constitute  a  participation  in  the 
war. 


PACIFICUS.  457 

Neither  do  those  expressions  imply,  that  the  United  States  will 
not  exercise  their  discretion  in  doina:  kind  offices  to  some  of  the 
parties,  without  extendiiiir  them  to  the  others,  so  hiiig  as  they  have 
no  relation  to  war:  for  kind  offices  of  that  description  may,  con- 
sistently with  neutrality,  be  shown  to  one  party  and  refused  to 
another. 

If  the  objectors  mean,  that  the  United  States  ought  to  favour 
France,  in  things  relating  to  war,  and  where  they  are  not  bound  to 
do  it  by  treaty  ;  they  must  in  this  case  also  abandon  their  preten- 
sion f)f  being  friends  to  peace.  For  such  a  conduct  would  be  a 
violation  of  neutrality,  which  could  not  fail  to  produce  war. 

It  follows  then,  that  the  proclamation  is  reconcilable  with  all 
that  those  wiio  censure  it  contend  for  ;  taking  them  upon  their  own 
ground,  that  nothing  is  to  be  done  incompatible  with  the  preserva- 
tion of  peace. 

But  though  this  would  be  a  sufficient  answer  to  the  objection 
under  consideration  ;  yet  it  may  not  be  without  use,  to  indulge 
some  reflections  on  this  very  favourite  topic  of  gratitude  to 
France  ;  since  it  is  at  this  shrine  that  we  are  continually  invited 
to  sacrifice  the  true  interests  of  the  f  ;nntry  ;  as  if  "  all  for  luf, 
*'  and  the  world  well  lost,"  were  a  fundamental  maxim  lu  politics. 
Faith  and  justice,  between  nations,  are  virtues  of  a  nature  the 
most  necessary  and  sacred.  They  cannot  be  too  strongly  incul- 
cated, nor  too  highly  respected.  Their  obligations  are  absolute, 
their  utility  unquestionable ;  they  relate  to  objects  which,  with 
probity  and  sincerity,  generally  admit  of  being  brought  within 
clear  and  intelligible  rules. 

But  the  same  cannot  be  said  of  gratitude.  It  is  not  very  often, 
that  between  nations,  it  can  be  pronounced  with  certainty,  that 
there  exists  a  solid  foundation  for  the  sentiment;  and  how  far  it 
can  justifiably  be  permitted  to  operate,  is  always  a  question  of 
still  greater  difficulty. 

The  basis  of  gratitude  is  a  benefit  received  or  intended,  which 
there  was  no  right  to  claim,  originating  in  a  regard  to  the  interest 
or  advantage  of  the  party  on  whom  the  benefit  is,  or  is  meant  to  be, 
conferred.  If  a  service  is  rendered  from  views  relative  to  the 
immediate  interest  of  the  party  who  performs  it,  and  is  productive 
of  reciprocal  advantages,  there  seems  scarcely  in  such  a  case,  to 
be  an  adequate  basis  for  a  sentiment  like  that  of  gratitude.  The 
effect  at  least  would  be  wholly  disproportioned  to  the  cause,  if 
such  a  service  ought  to  beget  more  than  a  disposition  to  render  in 
turn  a  correspondent  good  office,  founded  on  mutual  interest  and 
reciprocal  advantage.  But  gratitude  Avould  require  much  more 
56 


458  LETTERS  OF 

than  this  ;  it  would  exact  to  a  certain  extent,  even  a  sacrifice  of 
the  interest  of  the  party  obliged  to  the  service  or  benefit  of  the 
one  by  whom  tlie  obligation  had  been  conferred. 

Between  individuals,  occasion  is  not  unfreqiienlly  given  for  the 
exercise  of  gratitude.  Instances  of  conferring  benefits  from  kind 
and  benevolent  dispositions  or  feelings  towards  the  person  bene- 
fited, without  any  other  interest  on  the  part  of  the  person  who 
renders  the  service,  than  the  pleasure  of  doing  a  good  action,  oc- 
cur every  day  among  individuals.  But  among  nations  they  per- 
haps never  occur.  It  may  be  affirmed  as  a  general  principle,  that 
the  predominant  motive  of  good  offices  from  one  nation  to  another, 
is  the  interest  or  advantage  of  the  nation  which  performs  them. 

Indeed,  the  rule  of  morality  in  this  respect  is  not  precisely  the 
same  between  nations,  as  between  individuals.  The  duty  of  mak- 
ing its  own  welfare  the  guide  of  its  actions,  is  much  stronger  upon 
the  former,  than  upon  the  latter;  in  proportion  to  the  greater 
magnitude  and  importance  of  national,  compared  with  individual 
happiness,  and  to  the  greater  permanency  of  the  eifect  of  nation- 
al, than  of  individual  conduct.  Existing  millions,  and  for  the 
most  part  future  generations,  are  concerned  in  the  present  meas- 
ures of  a  government;  while  the  consequences  of  the  private  ac- 
tions of  an  individual  ordinarily  terminate  with  himself,  or  are 
circumscribed  within  a  norrow  compass  : 

Whence  it  follows,  that  an  individual  may,  on  numerous  occa- 
sions, meritoriously  indulge  the  emotions  of  generosity  and  be- 
nevolence, not  only  without  an  eye  to,  but  even  at  the  expense  of, 
his  own  interest.  But  a  government  can  rarely,  if  at  all,  be  justi- 
fiable in  pursuing  a  similar  course  :  and,  if  it  does  so,  ought  to 
confine  itself  within  much  stricter  bounds.*  Good  offices  which 
are  indiffierent  to  the  interest  of  a  nation  performing  them,  or 
which  are  compensated  by  the  existence  or  expectation  of  some 
reasonal)le  equivalent,  or  which  produce  an  essential  good  to  the 
nation  to  which  they  are  rendered,  without  real  detriment  to  the 
affairs  of  the  benefactors,  prescribe  perhaps  the  limits  of  national 
generosity  or  benevolence. 

It  is  not  here  meant  to  recommend  a  policy  absolutely  selfish  or 
interested  in  nations  ;  but  to  show,  that  a  policy  regulated  by  their 
own  interest,  as  far  as  justice  and  good  faith  permit,  is,  and  ought 
to  be,  their  prevailing  one ;  and  that  either  to  ascribe  to  them  a 
different  principle  of  action,  or  to  deduce,  from  the  supposition  of 

*  'I'liis  conclusion  tierivos  coiifirmaiinn  from  the  refleclion.  that  under  every  form  of  gov- 
ernment, rulers  are  only  trustees  for  the  happiness  and  interest  of  tlieirnation,  and  cannot, 
consistently  with  their  trust,  follow  the  suggestions  of  kindness  or  humanity  towards  others, 
to  thr  prejudice  of  their  consiiluenls. 


PACIFICUS.  459 

it,  arguments  for  a  self-denying  and  self-sacrificing  gratitude  on 
the  part  of  a  nation,  which  may  have  received  from  another  good 
offices,  is  to  misrepresent  or  misconceive  what  usually  are,  and 
ought  to  be,  the  springs  of  national  conduct. 

These  general  reflections  will  be  auxilliary  to  a  just  estimate  of 
our  real  situation  with  regard  to  France  ;  of  which  a  closer  view 
will  be  taken  in  a  succeeding  paper. 


NO.  V, 

France,  the  rival,  time  immemorial,  of  Great  Britain,  had,  in 
the  course  of  the  war  which  ended  in  1763,  suffered  from  the  suc- 
cessful arms  of  the  latter  the  severest  losses  and  the  most  mortify- 
ing defeats.  Britain  from  th:it  moment  had  ac(]uired  an  ascend- 
ant in  the  affairs  of  Europe,  and  in  the  commerce  of  the  world, 
too  decided  and  too  humiliating  to  be  endured  without  extreme 
impatience,  and  an  eager  desire  of  finding  a  favourable  op- 
portunity to  destroy  it,  and  to  repair  the  breach  which  had  been 
made  in  the  national  glory.  The  animosity  of  wounded  pride 
conspired  with  calculations  of  interest,  to  give  a  keen  edge  to  that 
impatience,  and  to  that  desire. 

The  American  revolution  offered  the  occasion.  It  early  attract- 
ed the  notice  of  France,  though  with  extreme  circumspection. 
As  far  as  countenance  and  aid  may  be  presumed  to  have  been 
given  prior  to  the  epoch  of  the  acknowledgment  of  our  indepen- 
dence, it  will  be  no  unkind  derogation  to  assert,  that  they  were 
marked  neither  with  liberality,  nor  with  vigour;  that  they  wore 
the  appearance  rather  of  a  desire  to  keep  alive  disturbances  which 
might  embarrass  a  rival,  than  of  a  serious  design  to  assist  a  revo- 
lution, or  a  serious  expectation  that  it  could  be  effected. 

The  victories  of  Saratoga,  the  capture  of  an  army,  which  went 
a  great  way  towards  deciding  the  issue  of  the  contest,  decided  also 
the  hesitations  of  France.  They  established,  in  the  government 
of  that  country,  a  confidence  of  our  ability  to  accomplish  our 
purpose,  and,  as  a  consf;quence  of  it,  produced  the  treaties  of  alli- 
ance and  commerce. 

It  is  impossible  to  see  in  all  this  any  thing  more,  than  the  con- 
duct of  a  jealous  competitor,  embracing  a  most  promising  oppor- 
tunity to  repress  the  pride,  and  diminish  the  power  of  a  dangerous 
rival,  by  seconding  a  successful  resistance  to  its  authority,  with 
the  object  of  lopping  off  a  valuable  portion  of  its  dominions.  The 
dismemberment  of  this  country  from  Great  Britain  was  an  obvious, 
and  a  very  important  interest  of  France.     It  cannot  be  doubted, 


460  LETTERS  OF 

that  it  was  both  the  determining  motire  and  an  adequate  compen- 
sation, for  the  assistance  aifoided  to  us. 

Men  of  sense,  in  this  country,  derived  encouragement  to  the 
part  which  iheir  zeal  for  liberty  prompted  them  to  take  in  our  rev- 
olulinn,  from  the  probability  of  the  cooperation  of  France  and 
Spain.  It  will  be  remembered,  that  this  argument  was  used  in  the 
publications  of  the  day  ;  but  upon  what  was  it  bottomed  ?  Upon 
the  kncjwn  competition  between  those  nations  and  Great  Britain, 
upon  their  evident  interest  to  reduce  her  power  and  circumscribe 
her  empire  ;  not  certainly  upon  motives  of  regard  to  our  interest, 
or  of  attachment  to  our  cause.  Whoever  should  have  alleged  the 
latter,  as  the  grounds  of  the  expectations  held  out,  would  have 
been  t!;en  justly  co.isidered  as  a  visionary  or  a  deceiver.  And 
whoever  shall  now  ascribe  to  such  motives  the  aid  which  we  did 
receive,  would  not  deserve  to  be  viewed  in  a  better  light. 

The  inference  from  these  facts  is  nat  obscure.  Aid  and  cooper- 
ation, founded  upon  a  great  interest,  pursued  and  obtained  by  a 
party  rendering  them,  is  not  a  proper  stock  upon  which  to  engraft 
that  enthusiastic  gratitude,  which  is  claimed  from  us  by  those  who 
love  France  more  than  the  United  States. 

This  view  of  the  subject,  extorted  by  the  extravagancy  of  such 
a  claim,  is  not  meant  to  disparage  the  just  pretensions  of  France 
to  our  good-will.  Though  neither  in  the  motives  to  the  succours 
■wliich  she  furnished,  nor  in  their  extent,  (considering  how  power- 
fully the  point  of  honour,  in  such  war,  reinforced  the  considera- 
tions of  interest  when  she  was  once  engaged,)  can  be  found  a  suf- 
ficient basis  for  that  gratitude  which  is  the  theme  of  so  much 
declamation  ;  yet  we  shall  find,  in  the  manner  of  affording  them, 
just  cause  for  our  esteem  and  friendship. 

France  did  not  attempt,  in  the  first  instance,  to  take  advantage 
of  our  situation  to  extort  from  us  any  humiliating  or  injurious  con- 
cessions, as  the  price  of  her  assistance  ;  nor  afterwards,  in  the 
progress  of  the  war,  to  impose  hard  terms  as  the  condition  of  par- 
ticular aids. 

Though  this  course  was  certainly  dictated  by  policy  ;  yet  it  was 
a  iTia^nanimoHS  policy,  such  as  always  constitutes  a  title  to  the 
apj)robation  and  esteem  of  mankind  ;  and  a  claim  to  the  friendship 
and  acknowledgment  of  the  party  in  whose  favour  it  is  practised. 

But  these  sentiments  are  satisfied  on  the  part  of  the  nation,  when 
they  produce  sincere  wishes  for  the  happiness  of  the  party  from 
whom  it  has  ex})erienced  such  conduct,  and  a  cordial  disjxisition 
to  render  all  good  and  friendly  offices,  which  can  be  rendered 
without  prejudice  to  its  own  solid  and  permanent  interests. 


PACIFICUS.  461 

To  ask  of  a  nation  so  situated,  to  make  a  sacrifice  of  substan- 
tial interest ;  to  expose  itself  to  the  jealousy,  ill-will,  or  resentment 
o{  the  rest  of  the  wcirltl  ;  to  hazard,  in  an  eniinent  degree,  its  own 
safety,  for  the  benefit  of  the  party  who  may  have  observed  towards 
it  the  conduct  which  has  been  described  ;  would  be  to  ask  more 
than  the  nature  of  the  case  demands,  more  than  the  fundamental 
maxims  of  society  authorize,  more  than  the  dictates  of  sound 
reason  justify. 

A  question  has  arisen,  with  regard  to  the  proper  object  of  that 
gratitude,  which  is  so  much  insisted  upon  :  whether  it  be  the  un- 
fortunate prince  by  w  horn  the  assistance  received  was  given  ;  or 
the  nation  of  whom  he  was  the  chief  or  the  or^an  1  It  is  ex- 
tremely interesting  to  the  national  justice,  to  form  right  concep- 
tions on  this  point. 

The  arguments  which  support  the  latter  idea,  are  as  follows: 

"  Louis  the  XVI.  was  but  the  constitutional  agent  of  the  French 
♦'  people.  He  acted  for  and  on  behalf  of  the  nation  ;  it  was  with 
"  their  money  and  their  blood  he  supported  our  cause.  It  is  to 
"  them,  therefore,  not  to  him,  that  our  obligations  are  due.  Louis 
"  the  XVI.,  in  taking  our  part,  was  no  doubt  actuated  by  state 
"  policy.  An  absolute  prince  could  not  love  liberty.  But  the 
"  people  of  France  patronized  our  cause  with  zeal,  from  sympathy 
"  in  its  object.  The  people,  therefore,  not  its  monarch,  are  entitled 
*'  to  our  sympathy." 

This  reasoning  may  be  ingenious  ;  but  it  is  not  founded  in  na- 
ture or  fact. 

Louis  the  XVI.,  though  no  more  than  the  constitutional  agent 
of  the  nation,  had  at  the  time  the  sole  power  of  manaffing  its  af- 
fairs, the  legal  right  of  directing  its  will  and  its  force.  It  belonged 
to  iiim  to  assist  us,  or  not,  without  consulting  the  nation  ;  and  he 
did  assist  without  such  consultation.  His  will  alone  was  active  ; 
that  of  the  nation  passive.  If  there  was  kindness  in  the  decision, 
demanding  a  return  of  good-will,  it  was  the  kindness  of  Louis 
XVI.. ..his  heart  was  the  depository  of  the  sentiment.  Let  the 
genuine  voice  of  nature,  then,  unperverted  by  political  subtleties, 
pronounce  whether  the  acknowledgment,  which  may  be  due  for 
that  kindness,  can  be  equitably  transferred  from  him  to  others, 
■who  had  no  share  in  the  decision  ;  whether  the  principle  of  grati- 
tude ought  to  determine  us  to  behold  with  indifference  his  misfor- 
tunes, and  with  satisfaction  the  triumphs  of  his  foes. 

The  doctrine,  that  the  prince  is  the  organ  of  his  nation,  is  con- 
clusive to  enforce  the  obligations  of  good  faith  between  two  states  ; 
in  other  words,  the  observance  of  duties  stipulated  in  treaties  for 


4658  LETTERS  OF 

national  purposes  ;  and  it  will  even  suffice  to  continue  to  a  nation 
a  claim  lo  the  friendship  and  good-will  of  another,  resulting  from 
friendly  offices  done  by  its  prince  ;  but  it  would  be  to  carry  the 
principle  much  too  far,  and  to  render  it  infinitely  too  artificial  to 
attribute  to  it  the  eftect  of  transferring  such  a  claim  from  the 
prince  to  the  nation,  by  way  of  opposition  and  contrast.  Friend- 
ship, good-will,  gratitude  for  favours  received,  have  so  inseparable 
a  reference  to  the  motives  with  which,  and  to  the  persons  by  whom 
they  were  rendered,  as  to  be  incapable  of  being  transferred  to 
another  at  his  expense. 

But  Louis  XVI.,  it  is  said,  acted  from  reasons  of  state,  without 
regard  to  our  cause  ;  while  the  people  of  France  patronized  it 
with  zeal  and  attachment. 

As  far  as  the  assertion  with  regard  to  the  monarch  may  be  well 
founded,  and  is  an  objection  to  our  gratitude  to  him,  it  destroys 
the  whole  fabric  of  gratitude  to  France.  For  our  gratitude  is, 
and  must  be,  relative  to  the  services  performed.  The  nation  can 
only  claim  it  on  the  score  of  their  having  been  rendered  by  their 
agent  with  their  means.  If  the  views  with  which  he  performs 
them  divested  them  of  the  merit  which  ought  to  inspire  gratitude, 
none  is  due.     The  nation  no  more  than  their  agent  can  claim  it. 

With  regard  to  the  individual  good  wishes  of  the  citizens  of 
France,  as  they  did  not  produce  the  services  rendered  to  us  as  a 
nation,  they  can  be  no  foundation  for  national  gratitude.  They 
can  only  call  for  a  reciprocation  of  individual  good  wishes.  They 
cannot  form  the  basis  of  public  obligation. 

But  the  assertion  takes  more  for  granted  than  there  is  reason  to 
believe  true. 

Louis  the  XVL  no  doubt  took  part  in  our  contest  from  reasons 
of  state  ;  but  Louis  the  XVL  was  a  man,  humane  and  kind-heart- 
ed. The  acts  of  his  early  youth  had  entitled  him  to  this  charac- 
ter. It  is  natural  for  a  man  of  this  disposition  to  become  interest- 
ed in  the  cause  of  those  whom  he  protects  or  aids;  and  if  the 
concurrent  testimony  of  the  period  may  be  credited,  there  was  no 
man  in  France  more  personally  friendly  to  the  cause  of  this  coun- 
try than  Louis  the  XVI,  I  am  much  misinformed,  if  repeated 
declarations  of  the  venerable  Franklin  did  not  attest  this  fact. 

It  is  a  just  tribute  to  the  people  of  France  to  admit,  that  they 
manifested  a  lively  interest  in  the  cause  of  America;  but  while 
motives  are  scanned,  who  can  say  how  much  of  it  is  to  be  ascrib- 
ed to  the  antipathy  which  they  bore  to  their  rival  neighbour;  how 
much  to  their  sympathy  in  the  object  of  our  pursuit  1  It  is  cer- 
tain that  the  love  of   liberty   was   not   a   national  sentiment  in 


PACIFICUS.  163 

France,  when  a  zeal  for  our  cause  first  appeared  among  that  peo- 
ple. 

There  is  reason  to  believe  too,  tliat  the  attachment  to  our  cause, 
which  ultimately  became  very  extensive,  if  not  general,  did  not 
originate  with  the  mass  of  the  French  people.  It  began  with  the 
circles  more  immediately  connected  with  the  court,  and  was  thence 
diffused  through  the  nation. 

This  observation,  besides  its  tendency  to  rectify  ideas,  which 
are  calculated  to  give  a  false  current  to  the  public  feeling,  may 
serve  to  check  the  spirit  of  illiberal  invective,  which  has  been 
wantonly  indulged  against  those  distinguished  friends  of  America, 
who,  though  the  authors  of  the  French  revolution,  have  fallen  vic- 
tims to  it ;  because  their  principles  would  not  permit  them  to  go 
the  whole  length  of  an  entire  subversion  of  the  monarchy. 

The  preachers  of  gratitude  are  not  ashamed  to  brand  Louis  the 
XVI.  as  a  tyrant,  La  Fayette  as  a  traitor.  But  how  can  we  won- 
der at  this,  when  they  insinuate  a  distrust  even  of  a !  !  ! 

In  urging  the  friendly  disposition  to  our  cause,  manifested  by 
the  people  of  France,  as  a  motive  to  our  gratitude  towards  that 
people,  it  ought  not  to  be  forgotten,  that  those  dispositions  were 
not  confined  to  the  inhabitants  of  that  country.  They  were  em- 
inently shared  by  the  people  of  the  United  Provinces,  produced 
to  us  valuable  pecuniary  aids  from  their  citizens,  and  eventually 
involved  them  in  the  war  on  the  same  side  with  us.  It  may  be 
added  too,  that  here  the  patronage  of  our  cause  emphatically  be- 
gan with  the  mass  of  the  community,  not  originating  as  in  France 
with  the  government,  but  finally  implicating  the  government  in  the 
consequences. 

Our  cause  had  also  numerous  friends  in  other  countries  ;  even 
in  that  with  which  we  were  at  war.  Conducted  with  prudence, 
moderation,  justice,  and  humanity,  it  may  be  said  to  have  been  a 
popular  cause  among  mankind,  conciliating  the  countenance  of 
princes,  and  the  affection  of  nations. 

The  dispositions  of  the  individual  citizens  of  France  can  there- 
fore in  no  sense  be  urged,  as  constituting  a  peculiar  claim  to  our 
gratitude.  As  far  as  there  is  foundation  for  it,  it  must  be  referred 
to  the  services  rendered  to  us  ;  and,  in  the  first  instance,  to  the 
unfortunate  monarch  that  rendered  them.  This  is  the  conclusion 
of  nature  and  reason. 


464  LETTERS  OF 

NO.  VI. 

The  very  men  who  not  long  since,  with  a  holy  zeal,  would  have 
been  glad  to  make  an  mito  de  fe  of  any  one  who  should  have  pre- 
sumed to  assign  bounds  to  our  obligations  to  Louis  the  XVI.,  are 
now  ready  to  consign  to  the  flames  those  who  venture  even  to  think 
that  he  died  a  proper  object  of  our  sympathy  or  regret.  The 
greatest  pains  are  taken  to  excite  against  him  our  detestation. 
His  supposed  perjuries  and  crimes  are  sounded  in  the  public  ear, 
with  all  the  exaggerations  of  intemperate  declaiming.  All  the 
unproved  and  contradicted  allegations,  which  have  been  brought 
against  him  are  taken  for  granted,  as  the  oracles  of  truth,  on  no 
better  grounds  than  the  mere  general  presumptions,  that  he  could 
not  have  been  a  friend  to  a  revolution  which  stripped  him  of  so  much 
power  ;  that  it  is  not  likely  the  convention  would  have  pronounced 
him  guilty,  and  consigned  hira  to  so  ignominious  a  fate,  if  he  had 
been  really  innocent. 

It  is  possible  that  time  may  disclose  facts  and  proofs,  M'hich  will 
substantiate  the  guilt  imputed  to  Louis  :  but  these  facts  and  proofs 
have  not  yet  been  authenticated  to  the  world  ;  and  justice  admon- 
ishes us  to  wait  for  their  production  and  authentication. 

Those  who  have  most  closely  attended  to  the  course  of  the  tran- 
saction, find  least  cause  to  be  convinced  of  the  criminality  of  the 
deceased  monarch.  While  his  counsel,  whose  characters  give 
weight  to  their  assertions,  with  an  air  of  conscious  truth,  boldly 
appeal  to  facts  and  proofs,  in  the  knowledge  and  possession  of  the 
convention,  for  the  refutation  of  the  charges  brought  against  him, 
the  members  of  that  body,  in  all  the  debates  upon  the  subject 
which  have  reached  this  country,  either  directly  from  France,  or 
circuitously  through  England,  appear  to  have  contented  them- 
selves with  assuming  the  existence  of  the  facts  charged,  and  infer- 
ring from  them  a  criminality  which,  after  the  abolition  of  the  roy- 
alty, they  were  interested  to  establish. 

The  presumption  of  guilt  drawn  from  the  suggestions  which 
have  been  stated,  is  more  than  counterbalanced  by  an  opposite 
one,  which  is  too  obvious  not  to  have  occurred  to  many,  though  I 
do  not  recollect  yet  to  have  met  with  it  in  print.     It  is  this: 

If  the  convention  had  possessed  clear  evidence  of  the  guilt  of 
Louis,  they  would  have  promulgated  it  to  the  world  in  an  authen- 
tic and  unquestionable  shape.  Respect  for  the  opinion  of  man- 
kind, regard  for  their  own  character,  the  interest  of  their  cause, 
made  this  an  indispensable  duty  ;  nor  can  the  omission  be  satisfac- 
torily ascribed  to  any  other  reason  than  the  want  of  such  evidence. 


PACIFICUS.  465 

The  inference  is,  that  the  melancholy  catastrophe  of  Louis  XVT. 
was  the  result  of  a  supposed  political  ex[)e(Iieiic}',  rather  than  of 
real  criminality. 

In  a  case  so  circumstanced,  does  it,  can  it  consist  with  our  jus- 
tice or  our  humanity,  to  partake  in  the  angry  and  vindictive  pas- 
sions which  it  is  endeavoured  to  excite  against  the  unfortunate 
monarch  ?  Was  it  a  crime  in  him  to  have  been  born  a  prince  T 
Could  this  circumstance  forfeit  his  title  to  the  commiseration  due 
to  his  misfortunes  as  a  man  1 

Would  gratitude  dictate  to  a  people,  situated  as  are  the  people 
of  this  country,  to  lend  their  aid  to  extend  to  the  son  the  misfor- 
tunes of  the  father?  Should  we  not  be  more  certain  of  violating 
no  obligation  of  that  kind,  and  of  not  implicating  the  delicacy  of 
our  national  character,  by  lakiug  no  part  in  the  contest,  than  by 
throwing  our  weight  into  either  scale  1 

Would  not  a  just  estimate  of  the  origin  and  progress  of  our  re- 
lations to  France,  viewed  with  reference  to  the  mere  question  of 
gratitude,  lead  us  to  this  result.. ..that  we  ought  not  to  take  part 
against  the  son  and  successor  of  a  father,  on  whose  sole  will  de- 
pended the  assistance  w  hich  we  received ;  that  we  ought  not  to 
take  part  with  biui  against  the  nation,  whose  blood  and  whose 
treasure  had  been,  in  tlie  hands  of  the  father,  the  means  of  thst 
assistance  ? 

But  we  are  sometimes  told,  by  way  of  answer,  that  the  cause  of 
France  is  the  cause  (tf  liberty:  and  that  we  are  bound  to  assist 
the  nation  on  the  score  of  their  being  engaged  in  the  defence  of 
that  cause.  How  far  this  idea  ought  to  carry  us,  will  be  the  sub- 
ject of  future  examination. 

It  is  only  necessary  here  to  observe,  that  it  presents  a  question 
essentially  different  from  that  which  has  been  in  discussion.  If 
we  are  bound  to  assist  the  French  natir)ti,  on  the  principle  &lt;»f  their 
being  embarked  in  the  defence  of  liberty,  this  is  a  consideratitm 
altogether  foreign  to  tiiat  of  giaiinide.  Graiitude  has  reference 
only  to  kind  offices  received.  The  obligation  to  assist  the  cause 
of  liberty,  must  be  deduced  from  the  merits  of  that  cause,  and 
from  the  interest  we  have  in  its  support.  It  is  possil)le  that  the 
benefactor  may  be  on  one  side ;  the  defenders  and  supporters  of 
liberty  on  the  other.  Gratitude  may  point  one  way,  the  love  of 
liberty  another.  It  is  therefore  important  to  just  conclusions,  not 
to  confound  the  two  things. 

A  sentiment  of  justice,  more  than  the  importance  of   the   ques- 
tion itself,  has  led  to   so   particular   a  discussion   respecting  the 
proper  object  of  whatever  acknowledgment  may  be  due  from  the 
67 


406  LETTERS  OF 

United  States,  for  the  aid  which  they  received  from  France  during 
their  own  revolution. 

Tlie  extent  of  the  oblij^ation  which  it  may  impose  is  by  far  the 
most  interesting  inquiry.  And  thouiih  it  is  presumed,  that  enough 
has  been  aheady  said  to  evince,  that  it  does  in  no  degree  require 
us  to  embark  in  the  war;  yet  there  is  another,  and  a  very  simple 
view  of  the  subject,  which  is  too  convincing  lo  be  omitted. 

The  assistance  derived  from  France  was  afforded  by  a  great 
and  powerful  nation,  possessing  numerous  armies,  a  respectable 
fleet,  and  the  means  of  rendering  it  a  match  for  tlie  force  to  be 
encountered.  The  position  of  Europe  \vas  favourable  to  the  en- 
terprise ;  a  general  disposition  prevailing  to  see  the  power  of 
Britain  abridged.  The  cooperation  of  Spain  was  very  much  a 
matter  of  course,  and  the  probability  of  other  powers  becoming 
engaged  on  the  same  side  not  remote.  Great  Britain  was  alone, 
and  likely  to  continue  so  :  France  had  a  great  and  persuasive  in- 
terest in  the  separation  of  this  country  from  her.  In  this  situa- 
tion, with  much  lo  hope  and  little  to  fear,  she  took  part  in  our 
quarrel. 

France  is  at  this  time  singly  engaged  with  the  greatest  part  of 
Europe,  including  all  the  first-rate  powers,  except  one  ;  and  in 
danger  of  being  engaged  with  the  rest.  To  use  the  emphatic  lan- 
guage of  a  member  of  the  national  convention,  she  has  but  one 
enemy,  and  that  is  all  Europe.  Her  internal  affairs  are,  without 
doubt,  in  serious  disorder  ;  her  navy  comparatively  inconsidera- 
ble. The  United  States  are  a  young  nation  :  their  population, 
though  rapidly  increasing,  still  small ;  their  resources,  though 
growing,  not  great  ;  without  armies,  witiiout  fleets  ;  capable,  from 
the  nature  of  the  country  and  the  spirit  of  its  inhabitants,  of  im- 
mense exertions  for  self-defence,  but  little  capable  of  those  exter- 
nal efforts  which  could  materially  serve  the  cause  of  France.  So 
far  from  having  any  direct  int  rest  in  going  to  war,  they  have  the 
Strongest  motives  of  interest  to  avoid  it.  By  embarking  with 
France  in  the  war,  they  would  have  incomparably  more  to  appre- 
hend than  to  hope. 

This  contrast  of  situations  and  inducements  is  alone  a  conclu- 
sive demonstration,  that  the  United  States  are  not  under  an  obli- 
gation, from  gratitude,  to  join  France  in  the  war.  The  utter  dis- 
parity between  the  circumstances  of  the  service  to  be  rendered, 
and  of  the  service  received,  proves,  that  the  one  cannot  be  an  ad- 
equate basis  of  obligation  for  the  other.  There  would  be  a  man- 
ifest want  of  equality,  and  consequently  of  reciprocity. 

But  complete  justice  would  not  be  done  to  this  question  of  grat- 


PACIFICU3.  467 

itude,  were  no  notice  to  be  taken  of  the  addresi  which  has  ap- 
peared in  the  public  papers,  (the  authenticity  of  which  has  not 
been  impeached,)  from  the  convention  of  France  to  the  United 
States,  announcing  the  appointment  of  the  present  minister  pleni- 
potentiary. In  that  address  the  convention  informs  us,  that  "  the 
"support  which  the  ancient  French  court  had  afforded  the  United 
"  States  to  recover  their  independence,  was  only  the  fruit  of  a 
'*  base  specidation  ;  jind  that  their  glory  oft'ended  its  ambitious 
"  views,  and  the  ambassadors  of  France  bore  the  criminal  orders 
"of  stopping  the  career  of  their  prosperity." 

If  this  information  is  to  be  admitted  in  the  full  force  of  the 
terms,  it  is  very  fatal  to  the  claim  of  gratitude  towards  France. 
An  observation  similar  to  one  made  in  a  former  paper  occurs  here. 
If  the  organ  of  the  nation,  on  whose  w'ill  the  aid  which  was  given 
depended,  acted  not  only  from  motives  irrelative  to  our  advantage, 
but  from  unworthy  motives,  or,  as  is  alleged,  from  a  base  specu- 
lation ;  if  afterwards  he  displayed  a  temper  hostile  to  the.confirm- 
ation  of  our  security  and  prosperity,  he  acquired  no  title  to  our 
gratitude  in  the  first  instance,  or  he  forfeited  it  in  the  second. 
And  the  people  of  France,  who  can  only  demand  it  in  virtue  of 
the  conduct  of  tlieir  agent,  must,  together  with  him,  renounce  the 
pretension.  It  is  an  obvious  principle,  that  if  a  nation  can  claim 
merit  from  the  good  deeds  of  its  sovereign,  it  must  answer  for  the 
demerit  of  his  misdeeds. 

But  some  deductions  are  to  be  made  from  the  suggestions  in  the 
address  of  the  convention,  on  account  of  the  motives  which  evi- 
dently dictated  the  communication.  Their  zeal  to  alienate  the 
good-will  of  this  country  from  the  late  monarch,  and  to  increase 
the  odium  of  the  French  nation  against  the  monarchy,  which  was 
so  ardent  as  to  make  them  overlook  the  tendency  of  their  commu- 
nication to  deprive  their  votaries  among  us  of  the  plea  of  grati- 
tude, may  justly  be  suspected  of  exaggeration. 

The  truth  probably  is,  that  the  base  speculation  charged, 
amounts  to  nothing  more  than  that  the  government  of  France,  in 
affording  us  assistance,  was  actuated  by  the  motives  which  have 
been  attributed  to  it,  namely,  the  desire  of  promoting  the  interest 
of  France,  by  lessening  the  power  of  Great  Britain,  and  opening 
a  new  channel  of  commerce  to  herself;  that  the  orders  said  to 
have  been  given  to  the  ambassadors  of  France,  to  stop  the  career 
of  our  prosperity,  are  resolvable  into  a  speculative  jealousy  of  the 
ministers  of  the  day,  lest  the  United  States,  by  becoming  as  pow- 
erful and  great  as  they  are  capable  of  being  under  an  efficient 
government,  might  prove  formidable  to  the  European  possessions 


468  LETTERS  OF 

in  America.  With  these  quahfications,  the  address  oflfers  no  new 
discovery  to  the  iiitellio'ent  and  unbiased  friends  of  their  country. 
They  knew  ion^  atro,  that  tlie  interest  of  France  had  been  the 
governing  motive  of  the  aid  afforded  ;  and  they  saw  clearly  enough 
in  the  conversation  and  conduct  of  her  agents,  while  the  present 
constitution  of  the  United  States  was  under  consideration,  that 
the  government,  of  which  tiiey  were  the  ir)struments,  would  have 
preferred  our  remaining  under  the  old  form.  They  perceived 
also,  that  these  views  had  their  effect  upon  some  of  the  devoted 
partisans  of  France  among  ourselves  ;  as  they  now  perceive,  that 
the  same  characters  are  embodying,  with  all  the  aid  they  can  ob- 
tain, under  the  same  banner,  to  resist  the  operation  of  that  gov- 
ernment of  vvliich  tliey  withstood  the  establishment. 

All  this  was,  and  is  seen  ;  and  the  body  of  the  people  of  Ameri- 
ca are  too  discerninsf  to  be  long  in  the  dark  about  it:  too  wise  to 
have  been  misled  by  foreign  or  domestic  machinations,  they  adopt- 
ed a  constitution  which  was  necessary  to  their  safety  and  to  their 
happiness  :  too  wise  still  to  be  ensnared  by  the  same  machinations, 
they  will  support  the  government  they  have  established,  and  will 
take  care  of  their  own  peace,  in  spite  of  the  insidious  efforts  which 
are  employed  to  detach  them  from  the  one,  and  to  disturb  the  other. 

The  information  which  the  address  (»f  the  convention  contains, 
ought  to  serve  as  an  instructive  lesson  to  the  people  of  this  coun- 
try- It  ought  to  teach  us  not  to  overrate  foreign  friendships  ;  and 
to  be  upon  cur  guard  against  foreign  attachments.  The  former 
will  generally  be  found  hollow  and  delusive  ;  the  latter  will  have 
a  natural  tendency  to  lead  us  aside  from  our  own  true  interest, 
and  to  make  us  the  dupes  of  foreign  influence.  Both  serve  to 
introduce  a  principle  of  action,  which,  in  its  effects,  if  the  expres- 
sion may  be  allowed,  is  anti-national.  Foreign  influence  is  truly 
the  Grecian  horse  to  a  republic.  We  cannot  be  too  careful  to  ex- 
clude its  entrance.  Nor  ought  we  to  imagine,  that  it  can  only 
make  its  approaches  in  the  gross  form  of  direct  bribery.  It  is 
then  most  dangerous  when  it  comes  under  the  patronage  of  our 
passions,  under  the  auspices  of  national  prejudice  and  partiality. 

I  trust  the  morals  of  this  country  are  yet  too  good  to  leave  much 
to  be  apprehended  on  the  score  of  bribery.  Caresses,  condescen- 
sions, flattery,  in  unison  with  our  prepossessions,  are  infinitely 
more  to  be  feared  :  and  as  far  as  there  is  opportunity  for  corrup- 
tion, it  is  to  be  remembered,  that  one  foreign  power  can  employ 
this  resource  as  well  as  another  ;  and  that  the  effect  must  be  much 
greater,  when  it  is  combined  with  other  means  of  influence,  than 
where  it  stands  alone. 


PACIFICUS.  469 

NO.  VII. 

The  remaining  objection  to  the  proclamation  of  neutrality,  still 
to  be  discussed,  is,  that  it  was  out  of  time  and  unnecessary. 

To  give  colour  to  this  objection  it  is  asked,  why  did  not  the 
proclamation  appear,  when  the  war  commenced  with  Austria  and 
Prussia?  Why  was  it  forborne,  till  Creat  Britain,  Holland,  and 
Spain,  became  engaged  ?  Wliy  did  not  the  government  wait,  till 
the  arrival  at  Philadelphia  of  the  minister  of  the  French  republic  ? 
Why  did  it  volunteer  a  declaration  not  required  of  it  by  any  of 
the  belligerant  parties  ? 

To  most  of  these  questions,  solid  answers  have  already  appear- 
ed in  the  public  prints.  Little  more  can  be  done,  than  to  repeat 
and  enforce  them. 

Austria  and  Prussia  are  not  maritime  powers.  Contraventions 
of  neutrality  as  against  them,  where  not  likely  to  take  place  to 
any  extent,  or  in  a  shape  that  would  attract  their  notice.  It  would 
theref(u-e  have  been  useless,  if  not  ridiculous,  to  have  made  a 
formal  declaration  on  the  subject,  while  they  were  the  only  parties 
opposed  to  France. 

But  the  reverse  of  this  is  the  case  with  regard  to  Spain,  Hol- 
land, and  England.  These  are  all  commercial  and  maritime  na- 
tions. It  was  to  be  expected,  that  their  attentions  would  be  im- 
mediately drawn  towards  the  United  States  with  sensibility,  and 
even  with  jealousy.  It  was  to  be  feared,  that  some  of  our  citizens 
might  be  tempted  by  the  prospect  of  gain  to  go  into  measures 
which  would  injure  them,  and  hazard  the  peace  of  the  country. 
Attacks  by  some  of  these  powers  upon  the  possessions  of  France 
in  America,  were  to  be  looked  for  as  a  matter  of  course.  While 
the  views  of  the  United  States,  as  to  that  particular,  were  proble- 
matical, they  would  naturally  consider  us  as  a  power  that  might 
become  their  enemy.  This  they  would  have  been  the  more  apt  to 
do,  on  account  of  those  public  demonstrations  of  attachment  to 
the  cause  of  France,  of  which  there  has  been  so  j^rodigal  a  dis- 
play. Jealousy,  every  body  knows,  especially  if  sharpened  by  re- 
sentment, is  apt  to  lead  to  ill  treatment;  ill  treatment  to  hostility. 

In  proportion  to  the  probability  of  our  being  regarded  with  a 
suspicious,  and  consequently  an  unfriendly  eye,  by  the  powers  at 
war  with  France  ;  in  proportion  to  the  danger  of  imprudences 
being  committed  by  any  of  our  citizens,  which  might  occasion  a 
rupture  with  them,  the  policy  on  the  part  of  the  government,  of 
removing  all  doubt  as  to  its  own  disposition,  and  of  deciding  the 
condition  of  the  United  States,  in  the  view  of  the  parties  concern- 
ed, became  obvious  and  urgent. 


470  LETTERS  OF 

Were  the  United  States,  now  what,  if  we  do  not  rashly  throw 
away  the  advantages  we  possess,  they  may  expect  to  be  in  fifteen 
or  twenty  years,  there  wonld  have  been  more  room  for  an  insinua- 
tion wliich  has  been  thrown  out,  namely,  tlial  they  oujjht  to  have 
secured  to  themselves  some  advantage,  as  the  consideraticm  of 
their  neutrality  :  an  idea,  however,  the  justice  and  magnanimity 
of  which  cannot  be  commended.  But  in  their  present  situation, 
with  their  present  strength  and  resources,  an  attempt  of  that  kind 
could  have  only  served  to  display  pretensions  at  once  excessive 
and  unprincipled.  The  chance  of  obtaining  any  collateral  advan- 
tage, if  such  a  chance  there  was,  by  leaving  doubt  of  their  inten- 
tions, as  to  peace  or  war,  could  not  wisely  have  been  put,  for  a 
single  instant,  in  competition  with  the  tendency  of  a  contrary 
conduct  to  secure  our  peace. 

The  conduciveness  of  the  declaration  of  neutrality  to  that  end, 
was  not  the  only  recommendation  to  the  adoption  of  the  measure. 
It  was  of  great  importance  that  our  own  citizens  should  under- 
stand, as  soon  as  possible,  the  opinion  which  the  government  en- 
tertained of  the  nature  of  our  relations  to  the  warring  parties,  and 
of  the  propriety  or  expediency  of  our  taking  a  side,  or  remaining 
neuter.  The  arrangements  of  our  merchants  could  not  but  be 
very  difterently  affected  by  the  one  hypothesis  or  the  other  ;  and 
it  would  necessarily  have  been  very  detrimental  and  perplexing  to 
them  to  have  been  left  in  uncertainty.  It  is  not  requisite  to  say, 
how  much  our  agriculture  and  other  interests  would  have  been 
likely  to  have  suffered  by  embarrassments  to  our  merchants. 

The  idea  of  its  having  been  incumbent  on  the  government  to 
delay  the  measure  for  the  arrival  of  the  minister  of  the  French 
republic,  is  as  absurd  as  it  is  humiliating.  Did  the  executive  stand 
in  need  of  the  logic  of  a  foreign  agent  to  enlighten  it  as  to  the 
duties  or  interests  of  the  nation  ]  Or  was  it  bound  to  ask  his  con- 
sent to  a  step  which  apf)eared  to  itself  consistent  with  the  former, 
and  conducive  to  the  latter  ? 

The  sense  of  our  treaties  was  to  be  learnt  from  the  instruments 
themselves.  It  was  not  difficuk  to  pronounce  beforehand,  that  we 
had  a  greater  interest  in  the  preservation  of  peace,  than  in  any 
advantages  with  which  France  might  tempt  our  participation  in 
the  war.  Commercial  privileges  were  all  that  she  could  offer  of 
real  value  in  our  estimation,  and  a  carte  blanche  on  this  head  would 
have  been  an  inadequate  recompense  for  renouncing  peace,  and 
committing  ourselves  voluntarily  to  the  chances  of  so  precarious 
and  perilous  a  war.  Besides,  if  the  privileges  which  might  have 
been  conceded  were  not  founded  in  a  real,  permanent, mutual  inter- 


PACIFICUS.  471 

est,  of  what  value  would  be  the  treaty  that  should  concede  them  ? 
Ouirht  not  the  calculations,  in  such  case,  to  be  upon  a  speedy  re- 
sumption of  them,  with  perhaps  a  quarrel  as  the  pretext  1  On 
the  other  lia;id,  may  we  not  trust  that  commercial  privileges,  which 
are  truly  founded  in  mutual  iiitercst,  v  ill  grow  out  of  that  interest ; 
without  the  necessity  of  giving  a  premium  for  ihem  at  the  expense 
of  our  peace  1  ■ 

To  what  purpose  then  was  the  executive  to  have  waited  for  the 
arrival  of  the  minister?  Was  it  to  give  opportunity  to  conten- 
tions discussions ;  to  intriguing  machinations  ;  to  the  clamours  of 
a  faction  won  to  a  foreign  interest! 

Whether  the  declaration  of  neutrality,  issued  upon  or  without 
the  requisition  of  any  of  tlie  belligerant  powers,  can  only  be 
known  to  their  respective  ministers,  and  to  the  proper  officers  of 
our  government.  But  if  it  be  true,  that  it  issued  without  any  such 
requisition,  it  is  an  additional  indication  of  the  wisdom  of  the 
measure. 

It  is  of  much  importance  to  the  end  of  preserving  peace,  that 
the  belligerant  nations  should  be  thoroughly  convinced  of  the  sin- 
cerity of  our  intentions  to  observe  the  neutrality  we  profess ;  and 
it  cann  i.  fnil  to  have  weight  in  producing  this  conviction,  that  the 
declaration  of  it  was  a  spontaneous  act;  not  stimulated  by  any 
requisition  on  the  part  of  either  of  them  ;  but  proceeding  purely 
from  our  own  view  of  our  duty  and  interest. 

It  was  not  surely  necessary  for  the  government  to  wait  for  such 
a  requisition ;  while  there  were  advantages,  and  no  disadvantages, 
in  anticipation.  The  benefit  of  an  early  notification  to  our  mer- 
chants, conspired  with  the  consideration  just  mentioned  to  recom- 
mend the  course  which  was  pursued. 

If  in  addition  to  the  rest,  the  early  manifestation  of  the  views 
of  the  government  has  had  any  effect  in  fixing  the  public  opinion 
on  the  subject,  and  in  counteracting  the  success  of  the  efforts 
which,  it  was  to  be  foreseen,  would  be  made  to  distract  and  disu- 
nite, this  alone  would  be  a  great  recommendation  of  the  policy  of 
having  suffered  no  delay  to  intervene. 

What  has  been  already  said,  in  this  and  in  preceding  papers, 
aff'ords  a  full  answer  to  the  suggestion,  that  the  proclamation  was 
unnecessary.     It  would  be  a  waste  of  time  to  add  more. 

But  there  has  been  a  criticism  several  times  repeated,  which 
may  deserve  a  moment's  attention.  It  has  been  urged,  that  the 
pruclamation  ought  t;o  have  contained  some  reference  to  our  trea- 
ri€s;  and  that  the  generality  of  the  promise  to  observe  a  conduct 
friendly  and  impartial  towards  the   belligerant  powers,  ought  to 


472  LETTERS  OF 

have  been  qualified  with  expressions  equivalent  to  these,  "  as  far 
"  as  may  consist  with  the  treaties  of  the  United  States.^'' 

The  insertion  of  such  a  clau!?e  would  have  entirely  defeated  the 
object  of  a  proclamation,  by  rendering  the  intention  of  the  gov- 
ernment equivocal.  That  object  was  to  assure  the  powers  at  war 
and  our  own  citizens,  that  in  the  opinion  of  the  executive,  it  was 
consistent  with  the  duty  and  interest  of  the  nation  to  observe  neu- 
trality, and  that  it  was  intended  to  pursue  a  conduct  correspond- 
ing with  that  opinion.  "Words  equivalent  to  those  contended  for 
would  have  rendered  the  olher  part  of  the  declaration  nugatory, 
hy  leaving  it  uncertain,  whether  the  executive  did  or  did  not  believe  a 
state  of  neutrality  to  he  consistent  with  our  treaties.  Neither  foreign 
powers,  nor  our  own  citizens,  would  have  been  able  to  have  drawn 
any  conclusion  from  the  proclamation  ;  and  both  would  have  had 
a  right  to  consider  it  as  a  mere  equivocation. 

By  not  inserting  any  such  ambiguous  expressions,  the  proclama- 
tion was  susceptible  of  an  intelligible  and  proper  construction. 
While  it  denoted  on  the  one  hand,  that  in  the  judgment  of  the 
executive,  there  was  nothing  in  our  treaties  obliging  us  to  become  a 
party  in  the  war ;  it  left  it  to  be  expected  on  the  other,  that  all 
stipulations  compatible  with  neutrality,  according  to  the  laws  and 
usao-es  of  nations,  would  be  enforced.  It  follows,  that  the  procla- 
mation was,  in  this  particular,  exactly  what  it  ought  to  have  been. 
The  words,  "  make  known  the  disposition  of  the  United  States," 
have  also  given  a  pretext  for  cavil.  It  has  been  asked,  how  could 
the  president  undertake  to  declare  the  disposition  of  the  TJnited 
States  1  The  people,  for  aught  he  knew,  may  have  a  very  differ- 
ent sentiment.  Thus,  a  conformity  with  republican  propriety  and 
modesty  is  turned  into  a  topic  of  accusation. 

Had  the  president  announced  his  own  disposition,  he  would 
have  been  chargeable  with  egotism,  if  not  presumption.  The  con- 
stitutional organ  of  intercourse  between  the  United  States  and 
foreign  nations,  whenever  he  speaks  to  them,  it  is  in  that  capacity  ; 
it  is  in  the  name  and  on  the  behalf  of  the  United  States.  It  must 
therefore  be  with  greater  propriety,  that  he  speaks  of  their  dispo- 
sition, than  of  his  own. 

It  is  easy  to  imagine,  that  occasions  frequently  occur  in  the 
communications  to  foreign  governments  and  foreign  agents,  which 
render  it  necessary  to  speak  of  the  friendship  or  friendly  disposi- 
tion of  the  United  States,  of  their  disposition  to  cultivate  harmony 
and  good  understanding,  to  reciprocate  neighbourly  offices,  and 
the  like.  It  is  usual,  for  example,  when  public  ministers  are  re- 
ceived, for  some  complimentary  expressions  to  be  interchanged. 


PACIFICUS.  473 

It  is  presumable,  that  the  late  reception  of  the  French  ininistcM- 
did  not  pass,  without  some  assurance  on  llie  part  of  the  president, 
of  the  friendly  disposition  of  the  United  States  towards  France. 
Admittin&gt;;  it  to  have  happened,  would  it  be  deemed  an  improper 
arrogation  ?  If  not  why  was  it  more  so,  to  declare  the  disposi- 
tion of  ti)e  United  States  to  observe  a  neutrality  in  the  existing 
war  1 

In  all  such  cases,  nothing  more  is  to  be  understood,  than  an  of- 
ficial expression  of  the  ^«//^26«/ disposition  of  the  nntion,  infa-nd 
from  its  political  relations,  obligations,  and  interests.  It  is  never 
to  be  supposed,  that  the  expression  is  meant  to  convey  the  precise 
state  of  the  individual  sentiments  or  opinions  of  the  great  mass  of 
the  people. 

Kings  and  princes  speak  of  their  own  dispositions;  the  magis- 
trates of  republics,  of  the  dispositions  of  their  nations.  The 
president,  therefore,  has  evidently  used  the  siyle  adapted  to  his 
situation,  and  the  criticism  upon  it  is  plainly  a  cavil. 

PACIFICUS. 


58 


THE  LETTERS  OF  MELyiDiUS. 


Br  JAMES  3IADIS0N. 


No.  I. 

Severat.  pieces  with  the  signature  of  Pacificus  were  lately 
puhlished,  which  have  been  read  with  siiiguhir  pleasure  and  ap- 
phiuse,  by  the  foreigners  and  degenerate  citizens  among  us,  who 
hate  our  republican  government,  and  the  French  revolution  ; 
whilst  the  publication  seems  to  have  been  too  little  regarded,  or 
too  much  despised  by  the  steady  friends  to  both. 

Had  the  doctrines  iticiilcated  by  tlie  writer,  with  the  natural 
consequences  frcun  them,  been  nakedly  presented  to  the  public, 
this  treatment  might  bave  been  proper.  Their  true  character 
would  then  have  struck  every  eye,  and  been  rejected  by  the  feel- 
ings of  every  heart.  But  they  offer  tbemselves  to  tlie  reader  in 
the  dress  of  an  elaborate  dissertation  ;  they  are  mingled  with  a 
few  trutiis  that  may  serve  tliem  as  a  passport  to  credulity  ;  and 
they  are  introduced  with  professions  of  anxiety  for  the  preserva- 
tion of  peace,  for  the  ueliare  of  the  government,  and  for  the  re- 
spect due  to  the  present  head  of  the  executive,  that  may  prove  a 
snare  to  patriotism. 

In  these  disguises  they  have  appeared  to  claim  the  attention  I 
propose  to  bestow  on  them  ;  with  a  view  to  show,  from  the  pub- 
lication itself,  that  under  colour  of  vindicating  an  important  pub- 
lic act,  of  a  chief  magistrate  who  enjoys  the  confidence  and  love 
of  his  country,  ])rinciples  are  advanced  which  strike  at  the  vitals 
of  its  constitution,  as  well  as  at  its  honour  and  true  interest. 

As  it  is  not  improbable  that  attempts  may  be  made  to  apply  in- 
sinuations, which  are  seldom  spared  w  lieii  particular  purposes  are 
to  be  answered,  to  the  author  of  the  ensuing  observations,  it  may 
not  be  improper  to  premise,  tliat  he  is  a  friend  to  the  constitution, 
that  he  wishes  for  the  preservation  of  peace,  and  that  the  present 
chief  magistrate  has  not  a  fellow-citizen,  who  is  penetrated  with 
deeper  respect  for  his  merits,  or  feels  a  purer  solicitude  for  his 
glory. 


LETTERS  OF  HELVIDIUS.  475 

This  declaration  is  made  with  no  view  of  courting  a  more  fa- 
vourable ear  to  what  may  be  said  than  it  deserves.  The  sole  pur- 
pose of  it  is,  to  obviate  imputations  which  might  weaken  the  im- 
pressions of  truth  ;  and  which  are  the  more  likely  to  be  resorted 
to,  in  proportion  as  solid  and  fair  arguments  may  be  wanting. 

The  substance  of  the  first  piece,  sifted  from  its  inconsistencies 
and  its  vague  expressions,  may  be  thrown  into  the  following  pro- 
positions : 

That  the  powers  of  declaring  war  and  making  treaties  are,  in 
their  nature,  executive  powers: 

That  beitig  particularly  vested  by  the  constitution  in  other  de- 
partments, they  are  to  be  considered  as  exceptions  out  of  the  gen- 
eral grant  to  the  executive  department  : 

That  being,  as  exceptions,  to  be  construed  strictly,  the  powers 
not  strictly  within  them,  remain  with  the  executive: 

That  the  executive  consequently,  as  the  organ  of  intercourse 
with  foreign  nations,  and  the  interpreter  and  executor  of  treaties, 
and  the  law  of  nations,  is  authorized  to  expound  all  articles  of 
treaties,  those  involving  questions  of  war  and  peace,  as  well  as 
others ;... .to  judge  of  the  obligations  of  the  United  States  to  make 
war  or  not,  under  any  casus  fcederis  or  eventual  operation  of  the 
contract,  relating  to  war  ;  and  to  pronounce  the  state  of  things 
resulting  from  the  obligations  of  the  United  States  as  understood 
by  the  executive  : 

That  in  particular  the  executive  had  authority  to  judge,  whether 
in  the  case  of  the  mutual  guaranty  between  the  United  States  and 
France,  the  former  were  bound  by  it  to  engage  in  the  war  : 

That  the  executive  has,  in  pursuance  of  that  authority,  decided 
that  the  United  States  are  not  bound  :....And 

That  its  proclamation  of  the  22d  of  April  last,  is  to  be  taken 
as  the  eflfect  and  expression  of  that  decision. 

The  basis  of  the  reasoning  is,  we  perceive,  the  extraordinary 
doctrine,  that  the  powers  of  making  war,  and  treaties,  are  in  their 
nature  executive ;  and  therefore  comprehended  in  the  general 
grant  of  executive  power,  where  not  especially  and  strictly  except- 
ed out  of  the  grant. 

Let  us  examine  this  doctrine  :  and  that  we  may  avoid  the  possi- 
bility of  mistaking  the  writer,  it  shall  be  laid  down  in  his  own 
words;  a  precaution  the  more  necessary,  as  scarce  any  thing  else 
could  outweigh  the  improbability,  that  so  extravagant  a  tenet 
should  be  hazarded  at  so  early  a  day,  in  the  face  f)f  the  public. 

His  words  are...."  Two  of  these  [exceptions  and  qualifications 
"  to  the  executive  powers]  have  been  already  noticed. ...the  partici- 


478  LETTERS  OF 

•'  pation  of  the  senate  in  the  appointment  of  officers,  and  the 
*^  maJcing  of  tnaties.  A  third  remains  to  be  mentioned.. ..the  right 
"  (if  the  legishitiire  to  declare  icar,  and  grunt  letters  of  marque  and 
"  reprisal." 

A,'r:iin...."  Il  deserves  to  be  remarked,  that  as  the  participation 
•'of  the  senate  in  tiie  making  if  treaties,  and  tiie  power  of  the 
"  legishitiire  to  declare  war,  are  exceptions  out  of  the  general  execu- 
^^  five  powers,  \ested  '\n  ihe  president;  they  are  to  be  construed 
"  strictly,  and  ouglit  to  be  extended  no  further  tlian  is  essential  to 
"  tlieir  execution." 

If  tliere  be  any  countenance  to  these  positions,  it  must  be  found 
either,  first,  in  the  writers,  of  authority,  on  pubHc  law  ;  or,  2d,  in 
the  qindity  and  t)peration  of  tiie  powers  to  make  war  and  treaties ; 
or,  3d,  in  the  constitution  of  the  United  States. 

It  would  be  of  little  use  to  enter  far  into  the  first  source  of  in- 
formation, not  only  because  our  own  reason  and  our  own  consti- 
tution, are  the  best  guides;  but  because  a  just  analysis  and  dis- 
crinii)iation  of  the  powers  of  government,  according  to  their  ex- 
ecutive, legislative,  and  judiciary  qualities,  are  not  to  be  expected 
in  the  works  of  the  most  received  jurists,  who  wrote  before  a  crit- 
ical attenti(m  was  [)aid  to  those  t)bjects,  and  with  their  eyes  too 
much  on  monarchical  governinents,  where  all  powers  are  con- 
founded in  the  sovereignty  of  the  prince.  It  will  be  found  how- 
ever, I  believe,  that  all  of  them,  particularly  Wolsius,  Burleniaqui, 
and  Vatel,  speak  of  the  powers  tr)  declare  war,  to  conclude  peace, 
and  to  form  alliances,  as  among  the  liigliest  acts  of  the  sovereign- 
ty :  of  which  the  legislative  power  must  at  least  be  an  integral  and 
preeminent  part. 

Writers,  such  as  Locke,  and  Montesquieu,  who  have  discussed 
more  particidarly  the  principles  of  liberty  and  the  structure  of 
government,  lie  under  the  same  disadvantage,  of  having  written 
before  these  subjects  were  illuminated  by  the  events  and  discus- 
sions which  distinguish  a  \ery  recent  period.  Both  of  them  too 
are  evi&lt;lently  warped  by  a  regard  to  the  j)articidar  government 
of  England,  to  which  one  of  them  owed  allegiance;*  and  the 
other  professed  an  admiration  bordering  on  idolatry.  Montes- 
quieu, however,  has  rather  distinguished  himself  by  enforcing  the 
reasons  and  the  itnportance  of  avoiding  a  confusion  of  the  several 
powers  of  government,  than  by  enumerating  and  defining  the 
powers  which  belong  to  each  particular  class.  And  Locke,  not- 
withstanding the  early  date  of  his  work  on  civil    government,  and 

*  Tlie  chapU'r  on  prerogalive  sliows,  how  much  ihe  reason  of  ihc  philosopher  was  cloud- 
ed hy  ihe  rovalism  of  ihe  Eiigiishman. 


HELVIDIUS.  477 

the  example  of  his  own  government  before  his  eyes,  admits  that 
the  particular  powers  in  question,  vvliicli,  after  son)e  of  the  writers 
on  public  law  lie  c-dUafcdtrative,  are  really  distinct  from  the  execu- 
tive, though  almost  always  uiiitecl  with  it,  and  hardly  to  be  separat- 
ed into  distinct  hands.  Had  he  not  lived  under  a  nu)narchy,  in 
which  these  [towers  were  united  ;  or  had  he  written  by  the  lamp 
which  truth  now  presents  to  iawfrivers,  the  last  observation  would 
probably  never  have  dropped  from  his  pen.  But  let  us  quit  a  field 
of  research  which  is  more  likely  to  perplex  than  to  decide,  and 
bj-ing  the  question  to  other  tests  of  which  it  will  be  more  easy  to 
judge. 

2.  If  we  consult,  for  a  mftment,  the  nature  and  operation  of  the 
two  powers  to  declare  war  and  to  make  treaties,  it  will  be  impos- 
sible not  to  see,  tiiat  they  can  never  fall  within  a  proper  definition 
of  executive  powers.  The  natural  province  of  the  executive  maw- 
istrate  is  to  execute  laws,  as  that  of  the  legislature  is  to  make 
laws.  All  his  acts,  therefore,  properly  executive,  must  presuppose 
the  existence  of  the  laws  to  be  executed.  A  treaty  is  not  an  exe- 
cution of  laws  :  it  does  not  presuppose  the  existence  of  laws.  It 
is,  on  the  contrary,  to  have  itself  the  force  of  a  laio,  and  to  be 
carried  into  execution,  like  all  other  laws,  by  the  executive  magistrate. 
To  say  then  that  the  power  of  making  treaties,  which  are  confes- 
sedly laws,  belongs  naturally  to  the  department  which  is  to  exe- 
cute laws,  is  to  say,  that  the  executive  department  naturally  in- 
cludes a  legislative  power.  In  theory  this  is  an  absurdity....in  prac- 
tice a  tyranny. 

The  jiower  to  declare  war  is  subject  to  similar  reasoning.  A 
declaration  that  there  shall  be  war,  is  not  an  execution  of  laws:  it 
does  not  suppose  preexisting  laws  to  be  executed  :  it  is  not,  in  any 
respect,  an  act  merely  executive.  It  is,  on  the  contrary,  one  of 
the  most  deliberative  acts  that  can  be  performed  ;  and  when  per- 
formed, has  the  effect  of  repealing  all  the  laws  operating  in  a  state 
of  peace,  so  far  as  they  are  inconsistent  with  a  state  of  war  ;  and 
of  enacting,  as  a  rule  for  the  executive,  a  ncio  code  adapted  to  the 
relation  between  the  society  and  its  foreign  enemy.  In  like  man- 
ner, a  conclusion  of  peace  annuls  all  the  laws  peculiar  to  a  state 
of  war,  and  revives  the  general  laivs  incident  to  a  state  of  peace. 

These  remarks  will  be  strengthened  by  adding,  tuut  treaties, 
particularly  treaties  of  peace,  have  sometimes  the  effect  of  chang- 
ing not  only  the  external  laws  of  the  society,  but  operate  also  oa 
the  internal  code,  which  is  purely  municipal,  and  to  which  the  leg- 
islative authority  of  the  country  is  of  itself  competent  and  complete. 

From  this  view  of  the  subject  it  must  be  evident,  that  although 


478  LETTERS  OF 

the  executive  may  be  a  convenient  organ  of  preliminary  commu- 
nications with  foreign  governments,  on  the  subjects  of  treaty  or 
war:  and  tlie  proper  agent  for  carrying  into  execution  the  final 
determinations  of  the  competent  authority;  yet  it  can  have  no 
pretensions,  from  the  nature  of  the  powers  in  question  compared 
with  the  nature  of  the  executive  trust,  to  that  essential  agency 
which  gives  validity  to  such  determinations. 

It  must  be  furtlier  evident,  that  if  these  powers  be  not  in  their 
nature  purely  legislative,  they  partake  so  much  more  of  that,  than 
of  any  other  quality,  that  under  a  constitution  leaving  them  to  re- 
sult to  their  most  natural  department,  the  legislature  would  be 
without  a  rival  in  its  claim. 

Another  important  inference  to  be  noted  is,  that  the  powers  of 
making  war  and  treaty  being  substantially  of  a  legislative,  not  an 
executive  nature,  the  rule  of  interpreting  exceptions  strictly  must 
narrow,  instead  of  enlarging,  executive  pretensions  on  those  sub- 
jects. 

3.  It  remains  to  be  inquired,  whether  there  be  any  thing  in  the 
constitution  itself,  which  shows,  that  the  powers  of  making  war 
and  peace  are  considered  as  of  an  executive  nature,  and  as  com- 
prehended within  a  general  grant  of  executive  power. 

It  will  not  be  pretended,  that  this  appears  from  any  direct  posi- 
tion to  be  found  in  the  instrument. 

If  it  were  deducible  from  any  particular  expressions,  it  may  be 
presumed,  that  the  publication  would  have  saved  us  the  trouble  of 
the  research. 

Does  the  doctrine,  then,  result  from  the  actual  distribution  of 
powers  among  the  several  branches  of  the  government  l  or  from 
any  fair  analogy  between  the  powers  of  war  and  treaty,  and  the 
enumerated  powers  vested  in  the  executive  alone  1 

Let  us  examine  : 

In  the  general  distribution  of  powers,  we  find  that  of  declaring 
war  expressly  vested  in  the  congress,  where  every  other  legislative 
power  is  declared  to  be  vested ;  and  without  any  other  qualifica- 
tion than  what  is  common  to  every  other  legislative  act.  The  con- 
stitutional idea  of  this  power  would  seem  then  clearly  to  be,  that 
it  is  of  a  legislative,  and  not  an  executive  nature. 

This  conclusion  becomes  irresistible,  when  it  is  recollected,  that 
the  constitution  cannot  be  supposed  to  have  placed  either  any 
power  legislative  in  its  nature,  entirely  among  executive  powers, 
or  any  power  executive  in  its  nature,  entirely  among  legislative 
powers,  without  charging  the  constitution,  with  that  kind  of  inter- 
mixture and  consolidation  of  different  powers,  which  would  violate 


HELVIDIUS.  479 

a  fundamental  principle  in  the  organization  of  free  governments. 
If  it  were  not  unnecessary  to  enlarge  on  this  topic  here,  it  could 
be  shown,  that  the  constitution  was  originally  vindicated,  and  has 
been  constantly  expounded,  with  a  disavowal  of  any  such  inter- 
mixture. 

The  power  of  treaties  is  vested  jointly  in  the  president  and  in 
the  senate,  which  is  a  branch  of  the  legislature.  From  this  ar- 
rangement merely,  there  can  be  no  inference  that  would  necessa- 
rily exclude  the  power  from  the  executive  class  :  since  the  senate 
is  joined  with  the  president  in  another  power,  that  of  appointing 
to  offices,  which,  as  far  as  relate  to  executive  offices  at  least,  is 
considered  as  of  an  executive  nature.  Yet  on  the  other  hand, 
there  are  sufficient  indications  that  the  power  of  treaties  is  regard- 
ed by  the  constitution  as  materially  different  from  mere  executive 
power,  and  as  having  more  affinity  to  the  legislative  than  to  the 
executive  character. 

One  circumstance  indicating  this,  is  the  constitutional  regulation 
under  which  the  senate  give  their  consent  in  the  case  of  treaties. 
In  all  other  cases,  the  consent  of  the  body  is  expressed  by  a  ma- 
jority of  voices.  In  this  particular  case,  a  concurrence  of  two- 
thirds  at  least  is  made  necessary,  as  a  substitute  or  compensation 
for  the  other  branch  of  the  legislature,  which,  on  certain  occa- 
sions, could  not  be  conveniently  a  party  to  the  transaction. 

But  the  conclusive  circumstance  is,  that  treaties,  when  formed 
according  to  the  constitutional  mode,  are  confessedly  to  have  the 
force  and  operation  of  laics,  and  are  to  be  a  rule  for  the  courts  in 
controversies  between  man  and  man,  as  much  as  any  other  Imcs. 
They  are  even  emphatically  declared  by  the  constitution  to  be 
•*  the  supreme  law  of  the  land." 

So  far  the  argument  from  the  constitution  is  precisely  in  opposi- 
tion to  the  doctrine.  As  little  will  be  gained  in  its  favour  from  a 
comparison  of  the  two  powers,  with  those  particularly  vested  in 
the  president  alone. 

As  there  are  but  few,  it  will  be  most  satisfactory  to  review  them 
one  by  one. 

"  The  president  shall  be  commander  in  chief  of  the  army  and 
"  navy  of  the  United  States,  and  of  the  militia  when  called  into 
"  the  actual  service  of  the  United  States." 

There  can  be  no  relation  worth  examining  between  this  power 
and  the  general  power  of  making  treaties.  And  instead  of  being 
analogous  to  the  power  of  declaring  war,  it  affords  a  striking 
illustration  of  the  incompatibility  of  the  two  powers  in  the  same 
hands.     Those  who  are  to  conduct  a  war  cannot,  in  the  nature  of 


480  LETTERS  OF 

thino-s,  be  proper  or  safe  judges,  whether  a  war  ought  to  be  com' 
menced,  continued,  or  concluded.  They  are  barred  from  the  latter 
functions  by  a  great  principle  in  free  government,  analogous  to 
that  which  separates  the  sword  from  the  purse,  or  the  power  of 
executing  from  the  power  of  enacting  laws. 

"He  may  require  the  opinion  in  writing  of  the  principal  officers 
"  in  each  of  the  executive  departments  upon  any  subject  relating 
"  to  the  duties  of  their  respective  offices  ;  and  he  shall  have  power 
»'  to  grant  reprieves  and  pardons  fur  offences  against  the  United 
«'  States,  except  iu  case  of  impeachment."  These  powers  can 
have  nothing  to  do  with  the  subject. 

"The  president  shall  have  power  to  fill  up  vacancies  that  may 
"  happen  during  the  recess  of  the  senate,  by  granting  commissions 
"  which  shall  expire  at  the  end  of  the  next  session."  The  same 
remark  is  applicable  to  this  power,  as  also  to  that  of  "  receiving 
"  ambassadors,  other  public  ministers,  and  consuls."  The  par- 
ticular use  attempted  to  be  made  of  this  last  power  will  be  consid- 
ered in  another  place. 

"  He  shall  take  care  that  the  laws  shall  be  faithfully  executed, 
"and  shall  commission  all  officers  of  the  United  States."  To  see 
the  laws  faithfully  executed  constitutes  the  essence  of  the  execu- 
tive authority.  But  what  relation  has  it  to  the  power  of  making 
treaties  and  war,  that  is,  of  determining  what  the  laws  shall  he 
with  regard  to  other  nations  1  No  other  certainly  than  what  sub- 
sists between  the  powers  of  executing  and  enacting  laws  ;  no  oth- 
er, consequently,  than  what  forbids  a  coalition  of  the  powers  ia 
the  same  department. 

I  pass  over  the  few  other  specified  functions  assigned  to  the 
president,  such  as  that  of  convening  the  legislature,  &amp;c.,  &amp;c., 
which  cannot  be  drawn  into  the  present  question. 

It  may  be  proper  however  to  take  notice  of  the  power  of  re- 
moval from  office,  which  appears  to  have  been  adjudged  to  the 
president  by  the  laws  establishing  the  executive  departments ; 
and  which  the  writer  has  endeavoured  to  press  into  his  service. 
To  justify  any  favourable  inference  from  this  case,  it  must  be 
shown,  that  the  powers  of  war  and  treaties  are  of  a  kindred  na- 
ture to  the  power  of  removal,  or  at  least  are  equally  within  a  grant 
of  executive  power.  Nothing  of  this  sort  has  been  attempted, 
nor  probably  will  be  attempted.  Nothing  can  in  truth  be  clearer, 
than  that  no  analogy,  or  shade  of  analogy,  can  be  traced  between 
a  power  in  the  supreme  officer  responsible  fi)r  the  faithful  execu- 
tion of  the  laws,  to  displace  a  subaltern  officer  employed  in  the 
execution  of  the  laws  ;  and  a  power  to  make  treaties,  and  to  de- 


HELVIDIUS.  481 

clare  war,  such  as  these  have  been  found  to  be  in  their  nature, 
their  operation,  and  their  consequences. 

Thus  it  appears  that  by  whatever  standard  we  try  this  doctrine, 
it  must  be  condemned  as  no  less  vicious  in  theory  than  it  would  be 
dangerous  in  practice.  It  is  countenanced  neitlier  by  the  writers 
on  law  ;  nor  by  the  nature  of  the  powers  tliemselves  ;  nor  by  any 
general  arrangements,  or  particular  expressions,  or  plausible  anal- 
ogies, to  be  found  in  the  constitution. 

Whence  then  can  the  writer  have  borrowed  it  1 

There  is  but  one  answer  to  this  question. 

The  power  of  making  treaties  and  the  power  of  declaring  war, 
aie  royal  prerogatives  in  the  British  government,  and  arc  accord- 
ingly treated  as  executive  prerogatives  by  British  commentators. 

We  shall  be  the  more  confirmed  in  the  necessity  of  this  solution 
of  the  problem,  by  looking  back  to  the  sera  of  the  constitution, 
and  satisfying  ourselves  that  the  writer  could  not  have  been  mis- 
led by  the  doctrines  maintained  by  our  own  commentators  on  our 
own  government.  That  I  may  not  ramble  beyond  prescribed  lim- 
its, I  shall  content  myself  with  an  extract  from  a  work  which  en- 
tered into  a  systematic  explanation  and  defence  of  the  ccnistitu- 
tion  ;  and  to  which  there  has  frequently  been  ascribed  some  influ- 
ence in  conciliating  the  public  assent  to  the  government  in  the 
form  proposed.  Three  circumstances  conspire  in  giving  weight 
to  this  cotemporary  exposition.  It  was  made  at  a  time  when  no 
application  to j9ersort5  or  measures  could  bias:  the  o|)iMion  given 
was  not  transiently  mentioned,  but  formally  and  critically  eluci- 
dated :  it  related  to  a  point  in  the  constitution  which  must  conse- 
quently have  been  viewed  as  of  importance  in  the  public  mind.  The 
passage  relates  to  the  power  of  making  treaties;  that  of  declar- 
ing war,  being  arranged  with  such  obvious  propriety  among  the 
legislative  powers,  as  to  be  passed  over  without  particular  discus- 
sion. 

"  Though  several  writers  on  the  subject  of  government  place 
"that  power  [«/"  making  treaties']  in  the  class  of  executive  author- 
*•  ities,  yet  this  is  evidently  an  arbitrary  disposition.  For  if  we 
••  attend  carefully  to  its  operation,  it  will  be  found  to  partake  more 
••  of  the  legislative  than  of  the  executive  character,  though  it  doe-s 
"  not  seem  strictly  to  fall  within  the  definition  of  either  of  them. 
"  The  essence  of  the  legislative  authoiity,  is  to  enact  laws  ;  or,  in 
"  other  words,  to  prescribe  rules  for  the  regulation  of  the  society: 
"  while  the  execution  of  the  laws  and  the  employment  of  the  com- 
••  mon  strength,  either  for  this  purpose,  or  for  the  common  de- 
••  fence,  seem  to  comprise  all  the  functions  of  the  executive  magis- 
69 


^e  LETTERS  OF 

"  trate.  The  power  of  making  treaties  is  plainly  neither  the  one 
•'  nor  the  other.  It  relates  neither  to  the  execution  of  the  sub- 
"  sisting  laws,  nor  to  the  enacting  of  new  ones,  and  still  less 
"  to  an  exertion  of  the  common  strength.  Its  objects  are  con- 
"  tracts  with  foreign  nations,  which  have  the  force  of  law,  but  de- 
»'  rive  it  from  the  obligations  of  good  faith.  They  are  not  rules 
*•  prescribed  by  the  sovereign  to  the  subject,  but  agreements  be- 
"  tween  sovereign  and  sovereign.  The  power  in  question  seems 
"  therefore  to  form  a  distinct  department,  and  to  belong  properly 
"  neither  to  the  legislative  nor  to  the  executive.  The  qualities 
«' elsewhere  detailed  as  indispensable  in  the  management  of  for- 
"  eign  negotiations,  point  out  the  executive  as  the  most  fit  agent  in 
•'those  transactions  :  whilst  the  vast  importance  of  the  trust,  and 
"the  operation  of  treaties  as  laws,  plead  strongly  for  the  partici- 
•'  pation  of  the  whole  or  a  part  of  the  legislative  body,  in  the  office 
•'  of  making  them."     Federalist,  p.  372.* 

It  will  not  fail  to  be  remarked  on  this  commentary,  that  what- 
ever doubts  may  be  started  as  to  the  correctness  of  its  reasoning 
against  the  legislative  nature  of  the  power  to  make  treaties;  it  is 
clear,  consistent,  and  confident,  in  deciding  that  the  power  is pZamZy 
and  evidently  not  an  executive  power. 


NO.  II 

The  doctrine  which  has  been  examined,  is  pregnant  with  infer- 
ences, and  consequences,  against  which  no  ramparts  in  the  cf&gt;nsti- 
tution  could  defend  the  public  liberty,  or  scarcely  the  forms  of  re- 
publican government.  Were  it  once  established  that  the  powers 
of  war  and  treaty  are  in  their  nature  executive  ;  that  so  far  as 
they  are  not  by  strict  construction  transferred  to  the  legislature, 
they  actually  belong  to  the  executive;  that  of  course  all  powers 
not  less  executive  in  their  nature  than  those  powers,  if  not  grant- 
ed to  the  legislature,  may  be  claimed  by  the  executive  ;  if  grant- 
ed, are  to  be  taken  striitly,  with  a  residuary  right  in  the  execu- 
tive ;  or,  as  will  hereafter  appear,  perhaps  claimed  as  a  concurrent 
right  by  the  executive  ;  and  no  citizen  could  any  longer  guess  at 
the  character  of  the  government  under  which  he  lives;  the  most 
penetrating  jurist  would  be  unable  to  scan  the  extent  of  construc- 
tive prerogative. 

Leaving  however  to  the  leisure  of  the  reader,  deductions  which 
the  author,  having  omitted,  might  not  choose  to  own.  I  proceed 
*  No.  73,  wriUen  by  Mr.  Hamilton. 


HELVIDIUS.  483 

to  the  examination  of   one,   with  which  that  liberty  cannot  be 
taken. 

"  However  true  it  may  be,  (says  he,)  tliat  tlie  right  of  the  legis- 
^^lalura  U)  decline  war  includes  the  }-ight  of  judging,  whether  the 
"  legislature  be  uucler  obligations  lo  make  war  or  not,  it  will 
"  not  follow  that  the  executive  is  in  any  case  excluded  from  a  simi- 
**  lar  right  of  judging  iu  the  execution  of  its  own  functions." 

A  material  errour  of  the  writer,  in  this  application  of  his  doc- 
trine, lies  in  his  shrinking  from  its  regular  consequences.  Had 
he  stuck  to  his  principle  in  its  full  extent,  atid  reasoned  from  it 
without  restraint,  he  would  only  have  had  to  defend  himself  against 
his  opponents.  By  yielding  the  great  point,  that  the  right  to  de- 
clare war  though  to  be  taken  strictly  includes  the  right  to  judge, 
whether  the  nation  be  under  obligations  to  make  war  or  net,  he 
is  compelled  to  defend  his  argument,  not  only  against  others, 
but  against  himself  also.  Observe,  how  he  struggles  in  his  own 
toils. 

He  had  before  admitted,  that  the  right  to  declare  war  is  vested 
in  the  legislature.  He  here  admits,  that  the  right  to  declare  war 
includes  the  right  to  judge,  whether  the  United  States  be  obliged, 
to  declare  war  or  not.  Can  the  inference  be  avoided,  that  the 
executive,  instead  of  having  a  similar  right  to  judge,  is  as  much 
excluded  from  the  right  to  judge  as  from  the  right  to  declare? 

If  the  right  to  declare  war  be  an  exception  out  of  the  general 
grant  to  the  executive  power,  every  thing  included  in  the  right 
must  be  included  in  the  exception  ;  and,  being  included  iu  the  ex- 
ception, is  excluded  from  the  grant. 

He  cannot  disentangle  himself  by  considering  the  right  of  the 
executive  to  judge  as  cortcarrera/ with  that  of  the  legislature:  for 
if  the  executive  have  a  concurrent  right  to  judge,  and  the  right  to 
judge  be  included  in  (it  is  in  fact  the  very  essence  of)  the  right  to 
declare,  he  must  go  on  and  say,  that  the  executive  has  a  concur- 
rent right  also  to  declare.  And  then,  what  will  he  do  with  his 
other  admission,  that  the  power  to  declare  is  an  exception  out  of 
the  executive  power  ? 

Perhaps  an  attempt  may  be  made  to  creep  out  of  the  difficulty- 
through  the  words,  "  in  the  execution  of  its  functions."  Here, 
again,  he  must  equally  fail. 

Whatever  difficulties  may  arise  in  defining  the  executive  author- 
ity in  particular  cases,  there  can  be  none  iu  deciding  on  an  au- 
thority clearly  placed  by  the  constitution  in  another  department. 
In  this  case,  the  constitution  has  decided  what  shall  not  be  deemed 
an  executive  authority  ;  though  it  may  not  have  clearly  decided  in 


484  LETTERS  OF 

everj  case  what  shall  be  so  deemed.  The  declaring  of  war  is  ex- 
pressly made  a  legislative  function.  The  judging  of  the  obliga- 
tions to  make  war,  is  admitted  to  be  included  as  a  legislative  func- 
tion. Whenever,  then,  a  question  occurs,  whether  war  shall  be 
declared,  or  whether  public  stipidations  require  it,  the  question 
necessarily  belongs  to  the  department  to  which  those  functions  be- 
long....and  no  other  department  can  be  in  the  execution  of  its  proper 
functions,  if  it  should  undertake  to  decide  such  a  question. 

There  can  be  no  refuge  against  this  conclusion,  but  in  the  pre- 
text of  a  concurrent  right  in  both  departments  to  judge  of  the  obli- 
gations to  declare  war  ;  and  this  must  be  intended  by  the  writer, 
when  he  says,  "  It  will  not  follow,  that  the  executive  is  excluded 
'*  in  any  case  from  a  similar  right  of  judging,"  »fcc. 

As  this  is  the  ground  on  which  the  ultimate  defence  is  to  be 
made,  and  which  must  either  be  maintained,  or  the  works  erected 
on  it  demolished  ;  it  will  be  proper  to  give  its  strength  a  fair  trial. 

It  has  been  seen,  that  the  idea  of  a  concurrent  right  is  at  vari- 
ance with  other  ideas,  advanced  or  admitted  by  the  writer.  Lay- 
ing aside,  for  the  present,  that  consideration,  it  seems  impossible 
to  avoid  coiicludin&lt;r,  tluit  if  the  executive,  as  such,  has  a  concur- 
rent right  with  the  lefjislature  to  judge  of  obligations  to  declare 
war,  and  the  right  to  judge  be  essentially  included  in  the  right  to 
declare,  it  must  have  the  same  concurrent  right  to  declare,  as  it 
has  to  judge  ;  and,  hy  another  analogy,  the  same  right  to  judge  of 
other  causes  of  war,  as  of  the  particidar  cause  found  in  a  public 
stipulation.  So  that  whenever  the  executive,  in  the  course  of  its 
functions,  shall  meet  with  these  cases,  it  must  either  infer  an  equal 
authority  in  all,  or  acknowledge  its  want  of  authority  in  any. 

If  any  doubt  can  remain,  or  rather  if  any  doubt  could  ever  have 
arisen,  which  side  of  the  alternative  ought  to  be  embraced,  it  can 
be  with  those  f)nly  who  overlf)ok  or  reject  some  of  the  most  obvi- 
ous and  essential  truths  in  political  science. 

The  power  to  judge  of  the  causes  of  war,  as  involved  in  the 
power  to  declare  war,  is  expressly  vested,  where  all  other  legisla- 
tive powers  are  vested,  tliot  is,  in  the  congress  of  the  United  States. 
It  is  consequently  determined  by  the  constitution  to  be  a  legislative 
poicer.  Now,  omitting  the  inquiry  here,  in  what  respects  a  com- 
pound power  may  be  partly  leaislative,  and  partly  executive,  and 
accordingly  vested  partly  in  the  one,  and  partly  in  the  other  de- 
partment, ox  jointly  in  both;  a  remark  used  on  another  occasion 
is  equally  coticlusive  on  this,  that  the  same  power  cannot  belong, 
in  the  whole.,  to  both  departments,  or  be  proj)erly  so  vested  as  to 
operate  separately  in  each.     Still  more  evident  is  it,  that  the  same 


HELVIDIUS.  485 

specific  function  or  art,  cannot  possibly  belong  to  the  two  depart- 
ments, and  be  separately  exercisable  by  each. 

Legif^lative  power  may  be  concvrnnthj  vested  in  difTerent  legis- 
lative bodies.  Executive  powers  may  be  concurrently  vested  in 
different  executive  magistrates.  In  legislative  acts  the  executive 
may  have  a  participation,  as  in  the  qiialitied  negative  on  the  laws. 
In  executive  acts,  the  legislature,  or  at  least  a  branch  of  it,  may 
participate,  as  in  the  appointment  to  offices.  Arrangements  of 
this  sort  are  familiar  in  theory,  as  well  as  in  practice.  Cut  an  in- 
dependent exercise  of  an  executive  act  by  the  legislature  alone,  or 
of  a  legislative  act  by  the  executive  alone,  one  or  other  of  which 
must  happen  in  exery  case  where  the  same  act  is  exercisable  by 
each,  and  the  latter  of  which  would  happen  in  the  case  urged  by 
the  writer,  is  contrary  to  one  of  the  first  and  best  maxims  of  a 
■well-organized  government,  and  ought  never  to  be  founded  in  a 
forced  construction,  much  less  in  opposition  to  a  fair  one.  Instan- 
ces, it  is  true,  may  be  discovered  among  ourselves,  where  this  max- 
im has  not  been  faithfully  pursued  ;  but  being  generally  acknowl- 
edged to  be  errours,  they  confirm,  rather  than  impeach  the  truth 
and  value  of  the  maxim. 

It  may  happen  also,  that  different  independent  departments,  the 
legislative  and  executive,  for  example,  may,  in  the  exercise  of 
their  functions,  interpret  the  constitution  differently,  and  thence 
lay  claim  each  to  the  same  power.  This  dift'erence  of  opinion  is 
an  inconvenience  not  entirely  to  be  avoided.  It  results  from  what 
may  be  called,  if  it  be  thought  fit,  a  concurrent  right  to  expound 
the  constitution.  But  this  species  of  concurrence  is  obviously  and 
radically  different  from  that  in  question.  The  former  supposes 
the  constitution  to  have  given  the  power  to  one  department  only ; 
and  the  doubt  to  be,  to  which  it  has  been  given.  The  latter  sup- 
poses it  to  belong  to  both  ;  and  that  it  may  he  exercised  by  either 
or  both,  according  to  the  course  of  exigencies. 

A  concurrent  authority  in  two  independent  departments,  to  per- 
form the  same  function  with  respect  to  the  same  thing,  would  be 
as  awkward  in  practice,  as  it  is  unnatural  in  theory. 

If  the  legislature  and  executive  have  both  a  right  to  judge  of 
the  obligations  to  make  war  or  not,  it  must  sometimes  happen, 
though  not  at  present,  that  they  will  judge  difterently.  The  execu- 
tive may  proceed  to  consider  the  question  to-day  ;  may  determine 
that  the  United  States  are  not  bound  to  take  part  in  a  war,  and, 
in  the  execution  of  its  functions,  proclaim  that  determination  to  all 
the  world.  To-morrow,  the  legislature  may  follow  in  the  consid- 
eration of  the  same  subject ;  may  determine  that  the  obligations 


486  LETTERS  OF 

impose  war  on  the  United  States,  and,  in  the  execution  of  its  func- 
tions, enter  into  a  constitutional  declaration,  expressly  contradicting 
the  constitutional  proclamation. 

In  what  light  does  this  present  the  constitution  to  the  people 
who  established  it  ]  In  what  light  would  it  present  to  the  world 
a  nation,  thus  speaking,  through  two  ditferent  organs,  equally 
constitutional  and  authentic,  two  opposite  languages,  on  the  same 
subject,  and  under  the  same  existing  circumstances  ? 

But  it  is  not  with  the  legislative  rights  alone  that  this  doctrine 
interferes.  The  rights  of  the  judiciary  may  be  equally  invaded. 
For  it  is  clear  that  if  a  right  declared  by  the  constitution  to  be 
legislative,  and  actually  vested  by  it  in  the.  legislature,  leaves,  not- 
withstanding, a  similar  right  in  the  executive,  whenever  a  case 
for  exercising  it  occurs,  in  the  course  of  its  functions;  a  right  de- 
clared to  be  judiciary  and  vested  in  that  department  may,  on 
the  same  principles,  be  assumed  and  exercised  by  the  executive 
in  the  course  of  its  functions ;  and  it  is  evident  that  occasions  and 
pretexts  for  the  latter  interference  may  be  as  frequent  as  for  the  for- 
mer. So  again  the  judiciary  department  may  find  equal  occasions 
in  the  execution  of  its  functions,  for  usurping  the  authorities  of 
the  executive  ;  and  the  legislature  for  stepping  into  the  jurisdic- 
tion of  both.  And  thus  all  the  powers  of  government,  of  which 
a  partition  is  so  carefully  made  among  the  several  branches,  would 
be  thrown  into  absolute  halchpot,  and  exposed  to  a  general 
scramble. 

It  is  time  however  for  the  writer  himself  to  be  heard,  in  defence 
of  his  text.     His  comment  is  in  the  words  following: 

"  If  the  legislature  have  a  right  to  make  war  on  the  one  hand, 
"  it  is  on  the  other  the  duty  of  the  executive  to  preserve  peace, 
"  till  war  is  declared  :  and  in  fulfilling  that  duty,  it  must  neces- 
"sarily  possess  a  right  of  judging  what  is  the  nature  of  the  obli- 
"gations  which  the  treaties  of  the  country  impose  on  the  govern- 
"  ment  ;  and  when,  in  pursuance  of  this  right,  it  has  concluded 
"that  there  is  nothing  inconsistent  with  a  state  of  neutrality,  it 
"becomes  both  its  province  and  its  duty  to  enforce  the  laws  inci- 
"  dent  to  that  state  of  the  nation.  The  executive  is  charged  with 
"  the  execution  of  all  laws,  the  laws  of  nations,  as  well  as  the 
"  municipal  law  which  recognises  and  adopts  those  laws.  It  is 
"  consequently  bound,  by  faithfully  executing  the  laws  of  neutrali- 
"  ty,  when  that  is  the  state  of  the  nation,  to  avoid  giving  a  cause 
"  of  war  to  foreign  powers." 

To  do  full  justice  to  this  masterpiece  of  logic,  the  reader  must 
have  the  patience  to  follow  it  step  by  step. 


HELVIDIUS.  487 

If  the  legislature  have  a  right  to  make  war  on  the  one  hand,  it  is, 
on  the  other,  the  duty  of  the  executive  to  preserve  peace  till  tear  is  de- 
clared. 

It  will  be  observed  that  bere  is  an  explicit  and  peremptory  as- 
sertion, tliat  it  is  tbe  duty  of  tbe  executive  to  preserve  peace  till  tear 
is  declared. 

And  in  fulfilling  that  duty  it  must  necessarily  possess  a  right  of 
judging  7ohat  is  the  nature  of  the  obligations  ichich  the  treaties  of  the 
country  impose  on  the  govc7-nment :  That  is  to  say,  in  fulfilling  the 
duty  to  preserve  peace,  it  must  necessarily  possess  the  right  to  judge 
\\\\G\\\er  peace  ought  to  he  preserved;  in  other  words,  whether  its 
duty  should  be  performed.  Can  words  express  a  flatter  contradic- 
tion ?  It  is  self-evident  that  the  duty  in  this  case  is  so  far  from 
necessarily  implying  the  right  that  it  necessarily  excludes  it. 

And  when  in  pursuance  of  this  right  it  has  concluded  that  there  is 
nothing  in  them  (obligations)  inconsistent  icith  a  state  of  neutrality, 
IT  BECOMES  both  its  province  and  its  duty  to  enforce  the  laws  incident 
to  that  state  of  the  nation. 

And  what  if  it  should  conclude  that  there  is  something  inconsis- 
tent ?  Is  it  or  is  it  not  the  province  and  duty  of  the  executive  to 
enforce  the  same  laws  1  Say  it  is,  you  destroy  the  right  to  judge. 
Say  it  is  not,  you  cancel  tbe  duty  to  preserve  peace,  till  war  is 
declared. 

Take  this  sentence  in  connexion  with  tbe  preceding,  and  the 
contradictions  are  multiplied.  Take  it  by  itself,  and  it  makes  the 
right  to  judge  and  conclude,  whether  war  be  obligatory,  absolute 
and  operative  ;  and  the  duty  to  preserve  peace  subordinate  and 
conditional. 

It  will  have  been  remarked  by  tbe  attentive  reader,  that  the 
term  peace  in  the  first  clause  has  been  silently  exchanged  in  the 
present  one,  for  the  term  neutrality.  Nothing  however  is  gained 
by  shifting  the  terms.  Neutrality  means  peace,  with  an  allusion 
to  the  circumstance  of  other  nations  being  at  war.  The  term  has 
no  reference  to  the  existence  or  non-existence  of  treaties  or  alli- 
ances between  the  nation  at  jieace  and  the  nations  at  war.  The 
laws  incident  to  a  state  of  neutrality,  are  the  laws  incident  to  a 
state  of  peace,  with  such  circumstantial  modifications  only  as  are 
required  by  the  new  relation  of  the  nations  at  war:  until  war 
therefore  be  duly  authorized  by  the  United  States,  they  are  as  ac- 
tually neutral  when  other  nations  are  at  war,  as  tliey  are  at  peace 
(if  such  a  distinction  in  the  terms  is  to  be  kept  up)  when  other 
nations  are  not  at  war.  The  existence  of  eventual  engagements 
which  can  only  take  effect  on  the   declaration  of   the  legislature, 


488  LETTERS  OF 

cannot,  without  that  declaration,  change  the  actual  state  of  the 
country,  any  more  in  the  eye  of  the  executive  than  in  the  eye  of 
the  judiciary  department.  The  laws  to  be  the  guide  of  both,  re- 
main the  same  to  each,  and  the  same  to  both. 

Nor  would  more  be  gained  by  allowing  the  writer  to  define, 
than  to  shift  the  term  neutrality.  For  suppose,  if  you  please, 
the  existence  of  obligations  to  join  in  war  to  be  inconsistent  with 
neutrality,  the  question  returns  upon  him,  what  laws  are  to  be  en- 
forced by  the  executive,  until  effect  shall  be  given  to  those  obliga- 
tions by  the  declaration  of  the  legislature?  Are  they  to  be  the 
laws  incident  to  those  obligations,  that  is,  incident  to  war  ?  How- 
ever strongly  the  doctrines  or  deductions  of  the  writer  may  tend 
to  this  point,  it  will  not  be  avowed.  Are  the  laws  to  be  enforced 
by  the  executive,  then,  in  such  a  state  of  things,  to  be  the  same  as 
if  no  such  obligations  existed  1  Admit  this,  which  your  must  ad- 
mit, if  you  reject  the  other  alternative,  and  the  argument  lands 
precisely  wliere  it  embarked. ...in  the  position,  that  it  is  the  abso- 
lute duty  of  the  executive  in  all  cases  to  preserve  peace  till  war  is 
declared,  not  that  it  is  "  to  become  the  province  and  duty  of  the 
•'  executive"  after  it  has  concluded  that  there  is  nothing  in  those 
obligations  inconsistent  with  a  state  of  peace  and  neutrality.  The 
right  to  judge  and  conclude  therefore,  so  solemnly  maintained  in 
the  text,  is  lost  in  the  comment. 

We  shall  see,  whether  it  can  be  reinstated  by  what  follows: 
The  executive  is  charged  with  the  execution  of  all  laivs,  the  latos  of 
nations  as  icell  as  the  municipal  law  which  recognises  and  adopts  those, 
laics.  It  is  consequently  bound,  by  faithfully  executing  the  laws  of 
neutrality  ivhen  that  is  the  state  of  the  nation,  to  avoid  giving  cause 
of  war  to  foreign  powers. 

The  first  sentence  is  a  truth,  but  nothing  to  the  point  in  ques- 
tion. The  last  \s  partly  ti^tte  in  its  proper  meaning,  but  totally  un- 
true in  the  meaning  of  the  writer.  That  the  executive  is  bound 
faithfully  to  execute  the  laws  of  neutrality,  whilst  those  laws  con- 
tinue unaltered  by  the  competent  authority,  is  true  ;  but  not  for 
the  reason  here  given,  to  wit,  to  avoid  giving  cause  of  war  to  for- 
eign powers.  It  is  bound  to  the  faithful  execution  of  these  as  of 
all  other  laws  internal  and  external,  by  the  nature  of  its  trust  and 
the  sanction  of  its  oath,  even  if  turbulent  citizens  should  consider 
its  so  doing'  as  a  cause  of  war  at  home,  or  unfriendly  nations 
should  consider  its  so  doing  as  a  cause  of  war  abroad.  The  duty 
of  the  executive  to  preserve  external  peace,  can  no  more  suspend 
the  force  of  external  laws,  than  its  duty  to  preserve  internal  peace 
can  suspend  the  force  of  municipal  laws. 


HELVIDIUS.  489 

It  is  certain  that  a  faithful  execution  of  the  laws  of  neutrality 
may  tend  as  much  in  some  cases,  to  incur  war  from  one  quarter, 
as  in  others  to  avoid  war  from  other  quarters.  The  executive 
must  nevertheless  execute  the  laws  of  neutrality  whilst  in  force, 
and  leave  it  to  the  legislature  to  decide,  whether  they  ought  to  be 
altered  or  not.  The  executive  has  no  other  discretion  than  to  con- 
vene and  give  information  to  the  legislature  on  occasions  that  may 
demand  it  ;  and  whilst  this  discretion  is  duly  exercised,  the  trust 
of  the  executive  is  satisfied,  and  that  department  is  not  res|)()nsi- 
ble  for  the  consequences.  It  coul^i  -lOt  be  made  responsible  fir 
them  without  vesting  it  with  the  legislative  as  well  as  with  the  ex- 
ecutive trust. 

These  remarks  are  obviouc  and  conclusive,  on  the  supposition 
that  the  expression  "  laws  of  neutrality"  means  simply  what  the 
words  import,  and  what  alone  they  tan  mean,  to  give  force  or 
colour  to  the  inference  of  the  writer  fiom  his  own  premises.  As 
the  inference  itself  however,  in  its  proper  meaning,  does  not  ap- 
proach towards  his  avowed  object,  which  is  to  work  out  a  prerog- 
ative for  the  executive  to  judge,  in  common  with  the  legislature, 
whether  there  be  cause  of  war  or  not  in  a  jjublic  obligation,  it  i« 
to  be  presumed  that  "  in  faithfully  executing  the  laws  of  neutrah- 
"  ty,"  an  exercise  of  that  prerogative  was  meant  to  be  inchided. 
On  this  supposition  the  inference,  as  will  have  been  seen,  does  n(.t 
result  from  his  own  premises,  and  has  been  already  so  am|)Iy  dis- 
cussed, and,  it  is  conceived,  so  clearly  disproved,  that  not  a  word 
more  can  be  necessai:y  on  this  branch  of  his  argument. 


No.  III. 

In  order  to  give  colour  to  a  right  in  the  executive  to  exercise 
the  legislative  power  of  judging,  whether  there  be  a  cause  of  war 
in  a  public  stipulation. ...two  other  arguments  are  subjoined  by  the 
writer  to  that  last  examined. 

The  first  is  simply  this  :  "  It  is  the  right  and  duty  of  the  ex- 
"  ecutive  to  judge  of  and  interpret  those  articles  of  our  treaties 
"  which  give  to  France  particular  privileges,  in  order  to  the  enforce- 
"  inent  of  those  privileges:'''  from  which  it  is  stated,  as  a  necessary 
consequence,  that  the  executive  has  certain  other  rights,  among 
which  is  the  right  in  question. 

This  argument  is  answered  by  a  very  obvious  distinction.  The 
first  right  is  essential  to  the  execution  of  the  treaty,  as  a  law  in 
operation^  and  interferes  with  no  right  vested  in  another  depart- 
60 


490  LETTERS  OF 

ment.  The  second,  viz.,  the  rig'ht  in  question,  is  not  essential  to 
the  execution  of  the  treaty,  or  any  other  law:  on  the  contrary, 
the  articiu  to  which  tlie  riyht  is  applied  cannot,  as  has  heen  shown^ 
from  the  very  nature  of  it,  be  in  operation  as  a  law,  without  a  pre- 
vious declaration  of  the  lejjislature  ;  and  all  the  laws  to  be  enforc- 
ed by  the  executive  remain,  in  the  mean  time,  precisely  the  same, 
whatever  be  the  disposition  or  judgment  of  the  executive.  This 
second  right  would  also  interfere  with  a  right  acknowledged  to  b&amp; 
in  the  lejrislative  department. 

If  nothing  else  could  suggest  this  distinction  to  the  writer,  he 
ought  to  have  been  reminded  of  it  by  his  own  words,  "  in  order  to 
*'  the  enforcement  of  those  privileges. "....Was  it  in  order  to  the  en- 
forcement of  the  article  of  guaranty,  that  the  right  is  ascribed  to 
the  executive  ? 

The  other  of  the  two  arguments  reduces  itself  into  the  foFlovv- 
ing  form  :  the  executive  has  the  right  to  receive  public  ministers  ; 
this  right  includes  the  right  of  deciiling,  in  the  case  of  a  revolu- 
tion, whether  the  new  government,  sending  the  minister,  ought  to 
be  recognised,  or  not  ;  and  this,  again,  the  right  to  give  or  refuse 
operation  to  preexisting  treaties. 

The  power  of  the  legislature  to  declare  war,  and  judge  of  the 
causes  for  declaring  it,  is  one  of  the  most  express  and  explicit 
parts  of  the  constitution.  To  endeavour  to  abridge  or  affect  it  by 
strained  inferences,  and  by  hypothetical  or  singtilar  occurrences, 
naturally  warns  the  reader  of  some  lurking  fallacy. 

The  words  of  the  crnistitutiou  are,  "  He  (the  president)  shall 
"  receive  ambassadors,  other  public  ministers,  and  consuls."  I 
shall  not  undertake  to  examine,  what  would  be  the  precise  extent 
and  effect  of  this  function  in  various  cases  which  fancy  may  sug- 
gest, or  which  time  may  produce.  It  will  be  more  proper  to  ob- 
serve, in  general,  and  every  candid  reader  will  second  the  observa- 
tion, that  little,  if  any  thing,  more  was  intended  by  the  clause,  than 
to  provide  for  a  particular  mode  of  communication,  aJinast  grown 
into  a  right  among  modern  nations;  by  pointing  out  the  depart- 
ment of  the  government,  most  proper  for  the  ceremony  of  admit- 
ting public  ministers,  of  examining  their  credentials,  and  of  au- 
thenticating their  title  to  the  privileges  annexed  to  their  character 
by  the  law  of  nations.  This  being  the  apparent  design  of  the 
constitution,  it  would  be  highly  improper  to  magnify  the  function 
into  an  important  prerogative,  even  where  no  rights  of  other  de- 
partments could  be  affected  by  it. 

To  show  that  the  view  here  given  of  the  clause  is  not  a  new  con- 
struction, invented  or  strained  for  a  particular  occasion....I  will 


HELVIDIUS.  491 

take  the  liberty  of  recurring  to  the  cotemporary  work  already 
quoted,  which  contains  the  obvious  and  orif;:inaI  gloss  put  on  this 
part  of  the  constitution  by  its  friends  and  advocates. 

"  The  president  is  also  to  he  authorized  to  receive  ambassadors 
*'  and  other  public  ministers.  This,  though  it  has  been  a  rich 
"theme  of  declamation,  is  more  a  matter  of  dignitij  than  of  au- 
"  thority.  It  is  a  circumstance,  that  will  be  icithout  consequence  in 
"  the  administration  of  the  government,  and  it  is  far  more  con- 
"  venient  that  it  should  be  arranged  in  this  manner,  tiian  that  there 
*'  should  be  a  necessity  for  convening  the  legislature  or  one  of  its 
"branches  upon  every  arrival  of  a  foreign  minister,  though  it  were 
"  merely  to  take  the  place  of  a  departed  predecessor."  Fed.  p.  346.* 

Had  it  been  foretold  in  the  year  17SS  when  this  work  was  pub- 
lislied,  that  before  the  end  of  the  year  1793,  a  writer,  assuming  the 
merit  of  being  a  friend  to  the  constitution,  would  appear,  and 
gravely  maintaiti,  that  this  function,  which  was  to  be  icithout  con- 
sequence in  the  administration  of  the  government,  might  have  the 
consequence  of  decidinii  (ui  the  validity  of  revohstions  in  favour  of 
liberty,  "  of  putting  the  United  States  in  a  condition  to  become 
"an  associate  in  war". ...nay,  "of  laying  tlie  legislature  under  an 
"  obligation  of  declaring  war,"  what  would  have  been  thought  and 
said  of  so  visionary  a  prophet  1  * 

The  moderate  opponents  of  the  constitution  would  probably 
have  disowned  his  extravagance.  By  the  advocates  of  the  coti- 
stitution,  his  prediction  nnist  have  been  treated  as  "  an  experiment 
"  on  public  credulity,  dictated  either  by  a  deliberate  intention  to 
"  deceive,  or  by  the  overflowings  of  a  zeal  too  intemjierate  to  be 
"  ingenuous." 

But  how  does  it  follow  from  the  function  to  receive  ambassadors 
and  other  public  ministers,  that  so  consequential  a  prerogative 
may  be  exercised  by  the  executive  ?  When  a  foreign  minister 
presents  himself,  two  questions  immediately  arise  :  Are  his  cre- 
dentials from  the  existing  and  acting  government  r)f  his  country? 
Are  they  properly  authenticated  ?  These  questions  I)eIong  of  ne- 
cessity to  the  executive  ;  but  they  involve  no  cognizance  of  the 
question,  whether  those  exercising  the  government  have  the  right 
along  with  the  possession.  This  belongs  to  the  nation,  and  to  the 
nation  alone,  on  whom  the  government  operates.  The  questions 
before  the  executive  are  merely  questions  of  fact  ;  and  the  execu- 
tive would  have  precisely  the  same  right,  or  rather  be  under  the 
same  necessity  of  deciding  them,  if  its  function  was  simply  to  re- 
ceive without  any  discretion  to  reject  public  ministers.     It  is  evident, 

*  No,  69,  writi«n  by  Mr.  Hamiltoi. 


492  LETTERS  OF 

therefore,  that  if  the  executive  has  a  right  to  reject  a  public  min- 
ister, it  must  be  founded  on  some  other  consideration  than  a  change 
in  the  governn^ent,  or  the  iicvness  of  the  government;  and  con- 
sei|ueiitly  a  right  to  refuse  to  aLknow  ledge  a  new  government  can- 
iKit  he  imphed  by  the  right  to  refuse  a  pid)lic  minister. 

It  is  not  denied  thai  t!iere  may  be  cases  in  whicli  a  respect  to 
the  general  princip'es  of  liberty,  the  essential  rights  of  the  people, 
or  the  overruling  sentiments  of  humanity,  might  require  a  govern- 
ment, whether  new  or  old,  to  be  treated  as  an  illegitimate  despot- 
ism. Such  are  in  fact  discussed  and  admitted  by  the  most  ap- 
proved authorities.  But  they  are  great  and  extraordinary  cases, 
by  no  means  submitted  to  so  limited  an  organ  of  the  national  will 
as  tlie  executive  of  the  United  States;  and  certainly  not  to  be 
brought  by  any  torture  of  words,  within  the  right  to  receive  am- 
bassadors. 

That  the  authority  of  the  executive  does  not  extend  to  a  ques- 
tion, whether  an  existing  government  ought  to  be  recognised  or 
not,  will  still  more  clearly  appear  from  an  examination  of  the  next 
inference  of  the  writer,  to  wit :  that  the  executive  has  a  right  to 
give  or  refuse  activity  and  operation  to  preexisting  treaties. 

If  there  be  a  principle  that  ought  not  to  be  questioned  within 
the  United  States,  it  is,  that  every  nation  has  a  right  to  abolish 
an  old  government  and  establish  a  new  one.  This  principle  is  not 
only  recorded  in  every  public  archive,  written  in  every  American 
heart,  and  sealed  with  the  blood  of  a  host  of  American  martyrs: 
but  is  the  only  lawful  tenure  by  which  the  United  States  hold  their 
existence  as  a  nation. 

It  is  a  princi|)!e  incorporated  with  the  above,  that  governments 
are  ettabiished  for  the  national  good,  and  are  organs  of  the  na- 
tional will. 

From  these  two  principles  results  a  third,  that  treaties  formed 
by  the  government,  are  treaties  of  the  nation,  unless  otherwise  ex- 
pressed in  the  treaties. 

Another  Cf^nsequence  is,  that  a  nation,  by  exercising  the  right  of 
chanuiiig  the  organ  of  its  will,  can  neither  disengage  itself  from 
the  obligations,  nor  forfeit  the  benefits  of  its  treaties.  This  is  a 
truth  of  vast  importance,  and  hap|)ily  rests  with  suificient  firmness, 
on  its  own  authority.  To  silence  or  prevent  cavil,  I  insert,  how- 
ever, the  following  extracts:  "Since  then  such  a  treaty  (a  treaty 
"  unt  jic'sonal  to  the  sovereign)  directly  relates  to  the  body  of  the 
"  state,  it  subsists  thougli  the  form  of  the  republic  liapj)ens  to  be 
"changed,  and  though  it  should  be  even  transformed  into  a  mon- 
*' archy...  for  the  state  and  the  nation  are  always  the  same,  what- 


HELVIDIUS.  493 

"ever  chano^es  are  made  in  the  form  of  the  government.. ..and  the 
"  treaty  concluded  with  the  nation,  remains  in  force  as  long  as  the 
*'  nation  exists. "....Vatel,  B.  II,  §  85.  "  It  fulluws  that  as  a 
"treaty,  notwithstanding  the  change  of  a  democratic  government 
"  into  a  monarchy,  continues  in  force  wirli  the  new  king,  in  like 
"  manner,  if  a  monarchy  becomes  a  republic,  the  treaty  made  with 
*'  the  king  does  not  expire  on  that  account,  unless  it  was  manifest- 
"ly  personal."....Burlam.  part  IV,  c.  IX,  §  16,  tj  6. 

As  a  change  of  government  tlien  makes  no  change  in  the  obli- 
gations or  rights  of  the  party  to  a  treaty,  it  is  clear  that  the  ex- 
ecutive can  have  no  more  right  to  suspend  or  prevent  the  opera- 
tion, of  a  treaty,  on  account  of  the  change,  than  to  suspend  or 
prevent  the  operation,  where  no  such  change  has  happened.  Nor 
can  it  liave  any  more  right  to  suspend  the  operation  of  a  treaty 
in  force  as  a  law,  than  to  suspend  the  operation  of  any  other  law. 

The  logic  employed  by  the  writer  on  this  occasion,  will  be  best 
understood  by  accommodaiing  to  it  the  language  of  a  proclama- 
tion, founded  on  the  prerogative  and  policy  of  suspending  the 
treaty  with  France. 

Whereas  a  treaty  was  concluded   on   the day  of 

between  the  United  States  and  the  French  nation,  through  the 
kingly  government,  which  was  then  the  organ  of  its  will :  and 
whereas  the  said  nation  hath  since  exercised  its  right  (nowise 
abridged  by  the  said  treaty)  of  changing  the  organ  of  its  will,  by 
abolishing  the  said  kingly  government,  as  inconsistent  with  the 
rights  and  happiness  of  the  people,  and  establishing  a  republican 
in  lieu  thereof,  as  most  favourable  to  the  public  happiness,  and 
best  suited  to  the  genius  of  a  people  become  sensible  of  their 
rights  and  ashamed  of  their  chains:  and  whereas,  by  the  consti- 
tution of  the  United  States,  the  executive  is  authorized  to  receive 
ambassadors,  other  public  ministers,  and  consuls:  and  whereas 
a  public  minister,  duly  appointed  and  commissioned  by  the  new 
republic  of  France,  hath  arrived  and  presented  himself  to  the  ex- 
ecutive, in  order  to  be  received  in  his  proper  character,  now  be  it 
known,  that  by  virtue  of  the  said  right  vested  in  the  executive  to 
receive  ambassadors,  other  public  ministers  and  consuls,  and  of 
the  rights  included  therein,  the  executive  hath  refused  to  receive 
the  said  minister  from  the  said  republic,  and  hath  thereby  caused 
the  activity  and  operation  of  all  treaties  with  the  French  nation, 
hitherto  in  force  as  sttpreme  laics  of  the  land,  to  be  suspended  until 
the  executive,  by  taking  off  the  said  suspension,  shall  revive  the 
same  ;  of  which  all  persons  concerned  are  to  take  notice  at  their 
peril. 


494  LETTERS  OF 

The  writer,  as  if  beginning  to  feel  that  he  was  grasping  at  more 
than  lie  could  hold,  endeavours  all  of  a  sudden  to  squeeze  his  doc- 
trine into  a  smaller  size,  and  a  less  vulnerable  shape.  The  reader 
shall  see  the  operation  in  his  own  words. 

"  And  where  a  treaty  antecedently  exists  between  the  United 
"  States  and  such  nation,  [a  nation  whose  government  has  under- 
"  gone  a  revolution,]  that  right  [the  right  of  judging,  whether  the 
"  new  rulers  ought  to  be  recognised  or  not]  involves  the  power  of 
"  giving  operation  or  not  to  such  treaty.  For  until  the  new  gov- 
"  eminent  is  acknowledged,  the  treaties  between  the  nations  as 
'■^ far  at  least  as  regards  yjuftZzc  rights,  are  of  course  suspended." 

This  qualification  of  the  suspending  power,  though  reluctantly 
and  inexpliciily  made,  was  prudent,  for  two  reasons  :  first,  because 
it  is  pretty  evident  that  private  rights,  whether  of  judiciary  or  ex- 
ecutive cognizance,  may  be  carried  into  effect  without  the  agency 
of  the  foreign  government ;  and  therefore  would  not  be  suspend- 
ed, of  course,  by  a  rejection  of  that  agency  :  secondly,  because 
the  judiciary,  being  an  independent  department,  and  acting  under 
an  oath  to  pursue  the  law  of  treaties  as  the  supreme  law  of  the 
land,  might  not  readily  foMow  the  executive  example  ;  and  a  right 
in  one  expositor  of  treaties,  to  consider  them  as  not  in  force,  whilst 
it  would  be  the  duty  of  another  expositor  to  consider  them  as  in 
force,  would  be  a  phenomenon  not  so  easy  to  be  explained.  In- 
deed, as  the  doctrine  stands  qualified,  it  leaves  the  executive  the 
right  of  suspending  the  law  of  treaties  in  relation  to  rights  of  one 
description,  without  exempting  it  from  the  duty  of  enforcing  it  in 
relation  to  rights  of  another  description. 

But  the  writer  is  embarked  in  so  unsound  an  argument,  that 
he  does  not  save  the  rest  of  his  inference  by  this  sacrifice  of  one 
half  of  it.  It  is  not  true,  that  all  public  rights  are  of  course  sus- 
pended by  a  refusal  to  acknowledge  the  government,  or  even 
by  a  suspension  of  the  government.  And  in  the  next  place,  the 
rio-ht  in  question  does  not  follow  from  the  necessary  suspension 
of  public  rights,  in  consequence  of  a  refusal  to  acknowledge  the 
government. 

Public  rio"hts  are  of  two  sorts  :  those  which  require  the  agency 
of  eovernment ;  those  which  may  be  carried  into  effect  without 
that  agency. 

As  public  rights  are  the  rights  of  the  nation,  not  of  the  govern- 
ment, it  is  clear,  that  wherever  they  can  be  made  good  to  the  na- 
tion, without  the  office  of  government,  they  are  not  suspended  by 
the  want  of  an  acknowledged  government,  or  even  by  the  want 


HELVIDIUS.  495 

of  an  existing  government ;  and  that  there  are  important  rights  of 
this  description,  wiii  be  illustrated  by  the  following  case. 

Suppose,  that  after  the  conclusion  of  the  treaty  of  alliance  be- 
tween tbe  United  States  and  France,  a  party  of  the  enemy  had 
surprised  and  put  to  death  every  member  of  congress;  that  the 
occasion  had  been  used  by  the  people  of  America  for  changing 
the  old  confederacy  into  such  a  government  as  now  exists,  and 
that  in  the  progress  of  this  revolution,  an  interregnum  had  hap- 
pened :  suppose  further,  that  during  this  interval,  the  states  of 
South  Carolina  and  Georgia,  or  any  other  parts  of  the  United 
States,  had  been  attacked,  and  been  put  into  evident  and  immi- 
nent danger  of  being  irrecoverably  lost,  without  the  interposition 
of  the  French  arms  :  is  it  not  manifest,  that  as  the  treaty  is  the 
treaty  of  the  United  States,  not  of  their  government,  the  people 
of  the  United  States  could  not  forfeit  their  right  to  the  guaranty 
of  their  territory  by  the  accidental  suspension  of  their  govern- 
nrienl ;  and  that  any  attempt,  on  the  part  of  France,  to  evade  the 
obligations  of  the  treaty,  by  pleading  the  suspension  of  govern- 
ment, or  by  refusing  to  acknowledge  it,  would  jnstly  have  been 
received  with  universal  indignation,  as  an  ignominious  perfidy  1 

"With  respect  to  |)ublic  rights  that  cannot  take  effect  in  favour 
of  a  nation  without  the  agency  of  its  government,  it  is  admitted 
that  they  are  suspended  of  course  where  there  is  no  government 
in  existence,  and  also  by  a  refusal  to  acknowledge  an  existing 
government.  But  no  inference  in  favour  of  a  right  to  sui^pend 
the  operation  of  treaties,  can  be  drawn  from  either  case.  Where 
the  existence  of  the  government  is  suspended,  it  is  a  case  of  neces- 
sity ;  it  would  be  a  case  hajtpening  without  the  act  of  the  execu- 
tive, and  consequently  could  prove  nothing  for  or  against  the  right. 

In  the  other  case,  to  wit,  of  a  refusal  by  the  executive  to  recog- 
nise an  existing  government,  however  certain  it  may  be,  that  a  sus- 
pension of  some  of  the  public  rights  might  ensue  :  yet  it  is  equally 
certain,  that  the  refusal  would  be  without  right  or  authority  ;  and 
that  no  right  or  authority  could  be  implied  or  produced  by  the 
unauthorized  act.  If  a  right  to  do  whatever  might  bear  an  analo- 
gy to  the  necessary  consequence  of  what  was  done  without  right, 
could  be  inferred  from  the  analogy,  there  would  be  no  other  limit 
to  power  than  the  limit  to  its  ingenuity. 

It  is  no  answer  to  say  that  it  may  be  doubtful,  whether  a  gov- 
ernment does  or  does  not  exist ;  or  doubtful  which  may  be  the  ex- 
isting and  acting  government.  The  case  stated  by  the  writer  is, 
that  there  are  existing  rulers  ;  that  there  is  an  acting  government ; 
but  that  they  are  new  rulers  ;    and  that  it  is  a  new  government. 


496  LETTERS  OF 

The  full  reply,  however,  is  to  repeat  what  has  been  already  ob- 
served ;  that  questions  of  this  sort  are  mere  questions  of  fact; 
that  as  such  only,  they  belong  to  the  executive  ;  that  they  would 
equally  belong  to  the  executive,  if  it  was  tied  down  to  the  recep- 
tion of  public  ministers,  without  any  discretion  to  receive  or  re- 
ject them;  that  where  the  fact  appears  to  be,  that  no  government, 
exists,  the  consequential  suspension  is  independent  of  the  execu- 
tive ;  that  where  the  fact  appears  to  be,  that  the  government  does 
exist,  the  executive  must  be  governed  by  the  fact,  and  can  have 
no  right  or  discretion,  on  account  of  the  date  or  form  of  the  gov- 
ernment, to  refuse  to  acknowledge  it,  either  by  rejecting  its  public 
minister,  or  bv  any  other  step  taken  on  that  account.  If  it  does 
refuse  on  that  account,  the  refusal  is  a  wrongful  act,  and  can 
neither  prove  nor  illustrate  a  rightful  power. 

I  have  spent  more  time  on  this  part  of  the  discussion  than  may 
appear  to  some,  to  have  been  requisite.  But  it  was  considered  as 
a  proper  opportunity  for  presenting  some  important  ideas,  con- 
nected with  the  general  subject,  and  it  may  be  of  use  in  showing 
how  very  superficially,  as  well  as  erroneously,  the  writer  has  treat- 
ed it. 

In  other  respects,  so  paiticular  an  investigation  was  less  neces- 
sary. For  allowing  it  to  be,  as  contended,  that  a  suspension  of 
treaties  might  happen  from  a  consequential  operation  of  a  right  to 
receive  public  ministers,  which  is  an  express  right  vested  by  the 
constitution  ;  it  could  be  no  proof,  that  the  same  or  a  similar  effect 
could  be  produced  by  the  elirect  operation  of  a  constructive  poioer. 

Hence  the  embarrassments  and  gross  contradictions  of  the  writer 
in  defining  and  applying  his  ultimate  inference  from  the  operation 
of  the  executive  power  with  regard  to  public  ministers. 

At  first  it  exhibits  an  "  important  instance  of  the  right  of  the 
«'  executive  to  decide  the  obligation  of  the  nation  with  regard  to 
"  foreign  nations." 

Rising  from  that,  it  confers  on  the  executive,  a  right  "  to  put 
"  the  United  States  in  a  condition  to  become  an  associate  in  war." 

And  at  its  full  height,  it  authorizes  the  executive  "to  lay  the 
•'  legislature  under  an  obligation  of  declaring  war." 

From  this  towering  prerogative,  it  suddenly  brings  down  the 
executive  to  the  right  of  "  consequentially  affecting  the  proper  or 
"  improper  exercise  of  the  power  of  the  legislature  to  declare 
"  war." 

And  then,  bye  caprice  as  unexpected  as  it  is  sudden,  it  espouses 
the  cause  of  the  legislature ;  rescues  it  from  the  executive  right 
••  to  lay  it  under  an  obligation  of  declaring  war  ;"   and  asserts  it 


HELVIDIUS.  497 

lo  be  "  free  to  perform  its  oicn  duties  according  to  its  oton  sense  of 
"  them,"  witiiout  any  other  control  than  what  it  is  liable  to,  in 
every  other  legislative  act. 

The  point  at  whicii  it  finally  seems  to  rest,  is,  that  "  the  execu- 
•'  tive,  in  the  exercise  of  its  constitutional  powers,  may  establish  ;in 
"  antecedent  state  of  things,  which  ought  to  weigh  in  the  legisla- 
'■'■tive  decisions;''''  a  prerogative  which  will  import  a  great  deal,  or 
nothino-,  according  to  the  handle  by  which  you  take  it  ;  and  which 
at  the  same  time,  you  can  take  by  no  handle  that  does  not  clash 
with  some  inference  preceding. 

If  "  by  weighino^  in  the  legislative  decisions"  be  meant  having 
an  injlurnce  on  the  expediency  of  this  or  that  decision,  in  the  opin- 
ion of  the  legislature  ;  this  is  no  more  than  what  every  antecedent 
state  of  things  ought  to  have,  from  whatever  cause  proceeding; 
whether  from  the  use  or  abuse,  of  constitutional  powers,  or  from 
the  exercise  of  constitutional  or  assumed  powers.  In  this  sense, 
the  power  to  establish  an  antecedent  state  of  things  is  not  con- 
tested. But  then  it  is  of  no  use  to  the  writer,  and  is  also  in  di- 
rect contradiction  to  the  inference,  that  the  executive  may  "lay 
"the  legislature  under  an  obligation  to  decide  in  favour  of  icar^ 

If  the  meaning  be  as  is  imp!ied  by  the  force  of  the  terms  "  con- 
"  stitutional  powers,"  that  the  antecedent  state  of  things  produced 
by  the  executive,  ought  to  have  a  constitutional  weight  with  the 
legislature  ;  or,  in  plainer  words,  imposes  a  constitutional  obliga- 
tion on  the  legislative  decisions  ;  the  writer  will  not  only  have  to 
combat  the  arguments  by  which  such  a  prerogative  has  been  dis- 
proved ;  but  to  reconcile  it  with  his  last  concession,  that  "the  leg- 
"  islatnre  is  free  to  perform  its  duties  according  to  its  oion  sense 
"  of  them."  He  must  show  that  the  legislature  is,  at  the  same 
time  cimstitutionally  free  to  pursue  its  own  judgment  and  constitu- 
tionally bound  by  ihe  judgment  of  the  executive. 


NO.  IV. 

The  last  papers  completed  the  view  proposed  to  be  taken  of  the 
arguments  in  support  of  the  new  and  aspirinff  doctrine,  which  as- 
cribes to  the  executive  the  prerogative  of  judging  and  deciding, 
whether  there  be  causes  of  war  or  not,  in  the  obligations  of  trea- 
ties ;  notwithstanding  the  express  provision  in  the  constitution,  by 
which  the  legislature  is  made  the  organ  of  the  national  will,  on 
questions,  whether  there  be  or  be  not  a  cause  for  declaring  war. 
If  the  answer  to  these  arguments  has  imparted  the  conviction 
which  dictated  it,  the  reader  will  have  pronounced  that  they  are 
61 


498  LETTERS  OF 

generally  superficial,  abounding  in  contradictions,  never  in  the 
least  degree  conclusive  to  the  main  point,  and  not  unfrequently 
conclusive  against  the  writer  liitnself :  whilst  the  doctrine....that 
the  powers  of  treaty  and  war,  are  in  their  nature  executive  pow- 
ers, which  forms  the  basis  of  those  arg'uments,  is  as  indefensible 
and  as  dangerous  as  the  particular  doctrine  to  which  they  are  ap- 
plied. 

But  it  is  not  to  be  forgotten  that  these  doctrines,  though  ever  so 
clearly  disproved,  or  ever  so  weakly  defended,  remain  before  the 
public  a  striking  monument  of  the  principles  and  views  which  are 
entertained  and  propagated  in  the  community. 

It  is  also  to  be  renjerabered,  that  however  the  consequences 
flowing  from  such  premises,  may  be  disavowed  at  this  time,  or  by 
this  individual,  we  are  to  regard  it  as  morally  certain,  that  in  pro- 
portion as  the  doctrines  make  their  way  into  the  creed  of  the  gov- 
ernment, and  the  acquiesence  of  the  public,  every  power  that  can 
be  deduced  frt&gt;m  them,  will  be  deduced,  and  exercised  soon- 
er or  later  by  those  who  may  have  an  interest  in  so  doing.  The 
character  of  human  nature  gives  this  salutary  warning  to  every 
sober  and  reflecting  mind.  And  the  history  of  government  in 
all  its  forms  and  in  every  period  of  time,  ratifies  the  danger.  A 
people,  therefi)re,  who  are  so  happy  as  to  possess  the  inestimable 
blessings  of  a  free  and  defined  constitution,  cannot  be  too  watch- 
ful against  the  introduction,  nor  too  critical  in  tracing  the  conse- 
quences, of  new  principles  and  new  constructions,  that  may  re- 
move the  landtnarks  of  power. 

Should  the  prerogative  which  has  been  examined,  be  allowed,  ir» 
its  most  limited  sense,  to  usurp  the  public  countenance,  the  inter- 
val would  probably  be  very  short,  before  it  would  be  heard  from 
some  (luarter  or  other,  that  the  prerogative  either  amounts  to  noth- 
ing, or  means  a  right  to  judge  and  conclude  that  the  obligations  of 
treaty  impose  war,  as  well  as  that  they  permit  peace  ;  that  it  is 
fair  reasoning,  to  say,  tiiat  if  tlie  prerogative  exists  at  all,  an  op- 
erative rather  than  an  inert  character  ought  to  be  given  to  it. 

In  support  of  this  conclusion,  there  would  be  enough  to  echo, 
"  that  the  prerogative  in  this  active  sense,  is  connected  with  the 
"executive  in  various  capacities. ...as  the  organ  of  intercourse  be- 
"tween  the  nation  and  foreign  nati()ns....as  the  ititer|)reler  of  na- 
"  tioiial  treaties"  (a  violation  of  which  may  be  a  cause  of  war).... 
"as  that  power  which  is  charged  with  the  execution  of  the  laws, 
"of  which  treaties  make  a  part.... as  that  power,  which  is  charged 
"  with  the  command  and  application  of  the  public  force." 

With  additional  force,  it  might  be  said,  that  the  executive  is  as 


HELVIDIUS.  499 

much  the  executor  as  the  interpreter  of  treaties ;  that  if  by  virtue 
of  the  ^r5&lt;  character,  it  is  to  judge  of  the  obligations  of  treaties, 
it  is,  by  virtue  of  the  second,  equally  authorized  to  carry  those  ob- 
ligations into  effect.  Should  there  occur,  for  example,  a  casus  fcB- 
deris,  claiming  a  military  cooperation  of  the  United  States,  and  a 
military  force  should  happen  to  be  under  the  command  of  the  ex- 
ecutive, it  must  have  the  same  riglit,  as  executor  of  public  treaties, 
to  employ  the  puhiic  force,  as  it  has  in  quality  (if  interpreter  of 
public  treaties  to  decide,  whether  it  ouoht  to  he  employed. 

The  case  of  a  treaty  of  peace,  would  he  an  auxiliary  to  com- 
ments of  this  sort  :  it  is  a  conduimi  annexed  to  every  treaty,  that 
an  infraction  even  of  an  important  article,  on  one  side,  extinguish- 
es the  obligations  on  the  other:  and  the  immediate  consequence 
of  a  dissolution  of  a  treaty  of  peace  is  a  restoration  of  a  state  of 
war.  If  the  executive  is  "  to  decide  on  the  obligation  of  the  na- 
"  tion  with  regard  to  foreign  nations".. ..to  pronounce  the  existing 
"  condition  [in  the  sense  annexed  by  the  writer]  of  the  nation  with 
*'  regard  to  them  ;  and  to  admonish  the  citizens  of  their  obliga- 
•' tions  and  duties,  as  founded  upon  that  condition  of  things"...."  to 
"judge  what  are  the  reciprocal  rights  and  obligations  of  the  Unit- 
"  ed  States,  and  of  all  and  each  of  the  powers  at  war  •,"....add, 
that  if  the  executive,  moreover,  possesses  all  powers  relating  to 
war,  not  strictly  within  the  power  to  declare  war,  which  any  pupil  of 
political  casuistry  could  distinguish  from  a  mere  relapse  into  a  war 
that  had  been  declared:  with  this  store  of  materials,  and  the  exam- 
ple given  of  the  use  to  be  made  of  them,  would  it  be  difficult  to 
fabricate  a  power  in  the  executive  to  plunge  the  nation  into  war, 
whenever  a  treaty  of  peace  might  happen  to  be  infringed  ? 

But  if  any  difficulty  should  arise,  there  is  another  mode  chalked 
out,  by  which  the  end  might  clearly  be  brought  about,  even  with- 
out the  violation  of  the  treaty  of  peace  ;  especially  if  the  other 
party  should  happen  to  change  its  government  at  the  crisis.  The 
executive  could  suspend  the  treaty  of  peace  by  refusing  to  receive 
an  ambassador  from  the  ntio  government  ;  and  the  state  of  war 
emerges  of  course. 

This  is  a  sample  of  the  use  to  which  the  extraordinary  publica- 
tion we  are  reviewing  might  he  turned.  Some  of  the  inlerences 
could  not  he  repelled  at  all.  And  the  least  regular  of  them  must 
go  smoothly  down  with  those  who  had  swallowed  the  gross  sophis- 
try which  wrapi)ed  up  the  original  dose. 

Every  just  view  that  can  be  taken  of  this  subject,  admonishes 
the  public  of  the  necessity  of  a  rigid  adherence  to  the  simple,  the 
received,  and  the  fundamental  doctrine  of  the  constitution,  that 


509  LETTERS  OF 

the  power  to  declare  war,  including  the  power  of  jndo-inj^  of  the 
causes  of  war,  is  yi///v/  and  cxilusivdy  vested  in  the  leirislature ; 
that  the  executive  has  no  right,  in  any  case  to  decide  the  (juestion, 
whether  there  is  or  is  not  cause  for  declaring  war  ;  that  the  right 
of  convening  and  informing  congress,  whenever  such  a  question 
seems  to  call  for  a  decision,  is  all  the  right  which  the  constitution 
has  deemed  requisite  or  proper  ;  and  that  for  such,  more  than  for 
any  other  contingency,  this  right  was  specially  given  to  the  execu- 
tive. 

In  no  part  of  the  constitution  is  more  wisdom  to  be  found,  than 
in  the  clause  which  confides  the  question  of  war  or  peace  to  the 
legislature,  and  not  to  the  executive  department.  Beside  the  ob- 
jection to  such  a  mixture  of  heterogeneous  powers,  the  trust  and 
the  ten)ptation  would  be  too  great  for  any  one  man  ;  not  such  as 
nature  may  ofier  as  the  prodigy  of  many  centuries,  but  such  as 
may  be  expected  in  the  ordinary  successions  of  magistracy.  War 
is  in  fact  the  true  nurse  of  executive  aggrandizement.  In  war,  a 
physical  force  is  to  be  created  ;  and  it  is  the  executive  will,  which 
is  to  direct  it.  In  war,  the  public  trcasuies  are  to  be  unlocked  i 
and  it  is  the  executive  hand  which  is  to  dispense  them.  In  war, 
the  honours  and  emoluments  of  office  are  to  be  multiplied;  and  it 
is  the  executive  jiatronage  under  which  they  are  to  be  enjoyed. 
It  is  in  war,  finally,  that  laurels  are  to  be  gathered  ;  and  it  is  the 
executive  brow  they  are  to  encircle.  The  strongest  passions  and 
most  dangerous  weaknesses  of  the  human  breast;  ambition,  ava- 
rice, vanity,  the  honourable  or  venial  love  of  fame,  are  all  in  con- 
spiracy against  the  desire  and  duty  of  peace. 

Hence  it  has  grown  into  an  axiom  that  the  executive  is  the  de- 
partment of  power  most  distinguished  by  its  propensity  to  war  : 
lience  it  is  the  practice  of  all  states,  in  proportion  as  they  are  free, 
to  disarm  this  propensity  of  its  influence. 

As  the  best  praise  then  that  can  be  pronounced  on  an  executive 
magistrate,  is,  that  he  is  the  friend  of  peace  ;  a  praise  that  rises 
in  its  value,  as  there  may  be  a  known  capacity  to  shine  in  war  : 
so  it  must  be  one  of  the  most  sacred  duties  of  a  free  people,  to 
mark  the  first  omen  in  the  society,  of  })rinciples  that  may  stimu- 
late the  hopes  of  other  magistrates  of  another  propensity,  to  in- 
trude into  questions  on  which  its  gratification  depends.  If  a  free 
people  he  a  wise  people  also,  they  will  not  forget  that  the  danger 
of  surprise  can  never  be  so  great,  as  when  the  advocates  for  the 
prerogative  of  war  can  slieathe  it  in  a  symbol  of  peace, 

The  constitution  has  manifested  a  similar  prudence  in  refusing 
to  the  executive  the  sole  power  of  making  peace.     The  trust   in 


HELVIDIUS.  501 

this  instance  also,  would  be  too  great  for  the  wisdom,-  and  the 
temptations  too  strong  for  the  virtue,  of  a  single  citizen.  The 
principal  reasons  on  which  the  constitution  proceeded  in  its  regu- 
lation of  the  power  of  treaties,  including  treaties  of  peace,  are  so 
aptly  furnished  by  the  work  already  quoted  more  than  once,  that 
I  shall  borrow  another  comment  from  that  source. 

"  However  proper  or  safe  it  may  be  in  a  government  where  the 
"  executive  magistrate  is  an  hereditary  monarch,  to  commit  to  hira 
"the  entire  power  of  making  treaties,  it  would  be  utterly  unsafe 
"  and  improper  to  entrust  that  power  to  an  elective  magistrate  of 
"  four  years'  duration.  It  has  been  remarked  upon  another  occa- 
"  sion,  and  the  remark  is  unquestionably  just,  that  an  hei-edilary 
«'  monarch,  though  often  the  oppressor  of  his  people,  has  person- 
"  ally  too  much  at  stake  iir  the  government  to  be  in  any  material 
"  danger  of  being  corrupted  by  foreign  powers  :  but  that  a  man 
"  raised  from  the  station  of  a  private  citizen  to  the  rank  of  chief 
"  magistrate,  possessed  of  but  a  moderate  or  slender  fortune,  and 
"  looking  forward  to  a  period  not  very  remote,  when  he  may  prob- 
*'  ably  be  obliged  to  return  to  the  station  from  which  he  was  taken, 
"  might  sometimes  be  under  temptations  to  sacrifice  his  duty  to 
"  his  interest,  which  it  would  require  superlative  virtue  to  with- 
"  stand.  An  avaricious  man  might  be  tempted  to  betray  the  in- 
"  terests  of  the  state  to  tlie  acquisition  of  wealth.  An  ambitious 
"  man  might  make  his  owir  aggrandizement,  by  the  aid  of  a  for- 
"  eio-n  power,  the  price  of  his  treachery  to  his  constituents.  The 
"  history  of  human  conduct  does  not  warrant  that  exalted  opinion 
"  of  human  virtue,  which  would  make  it  wise  in  a  nation  to  com- 
"  mit  interests  of  so  delicate  and  momentous  a  kind,  as  those  which 
"  concern  its  intercourse  with  the  rest  of  the  world,  to  the  sole  dis- 
"  posal  of  a  magistrate  created  and  circumstanced  as  would  be  a 
"  president  of  the  United  States."     Fed.  p.  372.* 

I  shall  conclude  this  paper  and  this  branch  of  the  subject,  with 
two  reflections,  which  naturally  arise  from  this  view  of  the  consti- 
tution. 

The  first  is,  that  as  the  personal  interest  of  an  hereditary  mon- 
arch in  the  government,  is  the  onli/  security  against  the  temptation 
incident  to  the  commitment  of  the  delicate  and  momentous  inter- 
ests of  the  nation,  which  concern  its  intercourse  with  the  rest  of 
the  world,  to  the  disposal  of  a  single  magistrate,  it  is  a  plain  con- 
sequence, that  every  addition  that  may  be  made  to  the  sole  agency 
and  influence  of  the  executive,  in  the  intercourse  of  the  nation 
with  foreign  nations,  is  an  increase  of  the  dangerous  temptation 

*  No.  75,  wriUen  by  Mr.  Hamilton. 


503  LETTERS  OF 

to  which  an  elective  and  temporary  magistrate  is  exposed  ;  and  an 
argument  and  advance  towards  the  security  afforded  by  the  person- 
al interests  of  an  hereditary  magistrate. 

Secondly,  as  the  constitution  has  not  permitted  the  executive 
singly  to  conckide  or  judge  tliat  peace  ouglit  to  be  made,  it  might 
be  inferred  from  that  circumstance  ah&gt;ne,  tliat  it  never  meant  to 
give  it  authority,  singly,  to  judge  and  conclude  that  war  ought  not 
to  be  made.  The  trust  would  be  precisely  similar  and  equivalent 
in  the  two  cases.  The  right  to  say  th.it  war  ought  not  to  go  on, 
would  be  no  greater  than  the  right  to  say  that  war  ought  not  to 
begin.  Every  danger  of  errour  or  corruption,  incident  to  such  a 
prerogative  in  one  case,  is  incident  to  it  in  the  other.  If  the  con- 
stitution therefore  has  deemed  it  unsafe  or  improper  in  the  one 
case,  it  must  be  deemed  equally  so  in  the  other  case. 


NO.  V. 

Having  seen  that  the  executive  has  no  constitutional  right  to 
interfere  in  any  question,  whether  there  be  or  be  not  a  cause  of 
war,  and  the  extensive  consequences  flowing  from  the  doctrines 
on  which  such  a  claim  has  been  asserted  ;  it  remains  to  be  inquir- 
ed, whether  the  writer  is  better  warranted  in  the  fact  which  he  as- 
sumes, namely,  that  the  proclamation  of  the  executive  has  under- 
taken to  decide  the  question,  whether  there  be  a  cause  of  war  or 
not,  in  the  article  of  guaranty  between  the  United  States  and 
France,  and  in  so  doing  has  exercised  the  right  which  is  claimed 
for  that  department. 

Before  T  proceed  to  the  examination  of  this  point,  it  may  not  be 
amiss  to  advert  to  the  novelty  of  the  phraseology,  as  well  as  of  the 
doctrines,  espoused  by  this  writer.  The  source  from  which  the 
former  is  evidently  borrowed,  may  enlighten  our  conjectures  with 
regard  to  the  source  of  the  latter.  It  is  a  just  observation  also 
that  words  have  often  a  gradual  influence  on  ideas,  and,  when  used 
in  an  improper  sense,  may  cover  fallacies  which  would  not  other- 
wise escape  detection. 

I  allude  particularly  to  his  application  of  the  term  government 
to  the  executive  authority  alone.  The  proclamation  is  "  a  mani- 
"  festation  of  the  sense  of  the  government.'"  "Why  did  not  the 
^'government  wait,"  &amp;c.  "  The  policy  on  the  part  of  the  govern- 
"  ment  of  removing  all  doubt  as  to  its  oicn  disposition.^'*     "  It  was 

*  The  writrr  oiiglu  not  in  the  same  paper,  No.  VII,  to  have  said,  "  Had  the  president 
"  announced  his  ow7i  dispoiilion,  he  would  liave  been  chargeable  with  egotism,  if  not  pre- 
"  sumption." 


HELVIDIUS.  503 

•'  of  great  importance,  that  our  citizens  should  understand  as  early 
"  as  possible  the  opinion  entertained  by  the  government"  &amp;lc.  "  If 
"in  addition  to  the  rest,  the  early  tnanitestatioti  of  the  vinos  ai  {he 
^'^  government  had  any  effect  in  fixing  the  public  opinion,"  «fcc.  The 
reader  will  probably  he  struck  with  the  reflection,  that  if  the  pro- 
clamation really  possessed  the  character,  and  was  to  have  the  ef- 
fects, here  ascribed  to  it,  sotnethinjr  more  than  the  authority  o{  the 
government,  in  the  writer's  sense  of  govern ment,  would  have  been 
a  necessary  sanction  to  the  act ;  and  if  the  term  "  government"  be 
removed,  and  that  of  "  president"  substituted,  in  the  sentences 
quoted,  the  justice  of  the  reflection  will  be  felt  with  j)eculiar  force. 
But  I  reinark  only  on  the  singularity  of  the  style  adopted  by  the 
writer,  as  showing  either  that  the  phraseology  of  a  foreign  gov- 
ernment is  more  familiar  to  him  than  the  phraseology  proper  to 
our  own,  or  that  he  wishes  to  propagate  a  familiarity  of  the  for- 
mer in  preference  to  the  latter.  I  do  not  know  what  degree  of 
disapprobation  others  may  think  due  to  this  innovation  of  lan- 
guage ;  but  I  consider  it  as  far  above  a  trivial  criticism,  to  ob- 
serve that  it  is  by  no  means  unworthy  of  attention,  whether  view- 
ed with  an  eye  to  its  probable  cause,  or  its  apparant  tendency. 
"  The  government"  unquestionably  means,  in  the  United  States, 
the  whole  government,  not  the  executive  part,  either  exclusively, 
ot preeminently ;  as  it  may  do  in  a  monarchy,  where  the  sjileu- 
dour  of  prerogative  eclipses,  and  the  machinery  of  influence 
directs,  every  other  part  of  the  government.  In  the  former  and 
proper  sense,  the  term  has  hitherto  been  used  in  official  proceed- 
ings, in  public  discussions,  and  in  private  discourse.  It  is  as  short 
and  as  easy,  and  less  liable  to  misapprehension,  to  say  the  execu- 
tive, or  the  president,  as  to  say  the  government.  In  a  word,  the 
new  dialect  could  not  proceed  either  from  necessity,  couveniency, 
propriety,  or  perspicuity  ;  and  being  in  opposition  to  commou 
usage,  so  marked  a  fondness  for  it  justifies  the  notice  here  taken 
of  it.  It  shall  no  longer  detain  me,  however,  from  the  more  im- 
portant subject  of  the  present  paper. 

I  proceed  therefore  to  observe,  that  as  a  "  proclamation,"  in  its 
ordinary  use,  is  an  address  to  citizens  or  subjects  only  ;  as  it  is  al- 
ways understood  to  relate  to  the  law  actually  in  operation,  and  to 
be  an  aci  purely  and  exclusively  executive  ;  there  can  be  no  impli- 
cation in  the  name  or  the  form  cf  such  an  instrument,  that  it  was 
meant  principally  Utv  the  information  of  foreign  nations  ;  far  less 
that  it  related  to  an  eventual  stipulation  on  the  subject  acknotolcdged 
to  be  within  the  legislative  province. 

When  the  writer  undertook  to  engraft  his  new  prerogative  on 


504  LETTERS  OP 

the  proclamation,  by  ascribing  to  it  so  unusual,  and  unimplied  a 
nieaniiisj,  it  was  evidently  incumbent  on  liim  to  show,  that  the  text 
of  the  instrument  could  not  be  satisfied  by  any  other  construction 
than  his  own.  Has  he  done  this?  No.  What  has  he  done  1  He 
has  called  the  proclamation  a  proclamation  of  neutrality  ;  he  has 
put  his  own  arbitrary  meaning  on  that  phrase  ;  and  has  then  pro- 
ceeded in  his  arguments  and  his  inferences,  with  as  much  confi- 
dence, as  if  no  question  was  ever  to  be  asked  whether  the  term 
"  neutrality"  be  in  the  proclamation  ;  or  whether,  if  there,  it  could 
justify  the  use  he  makes  of  it. 

It  has  appeared  from  observations  already  made,  that  if  the 
term  "  neutrality"  was  in  the  proclamation,  it  could  not  avail  the 
writer  in  the  present  discussion  ;  but  the  fact  is,  no  such  term  is  to 
be  found  in  it,  nor  any  other  term,  of  a  meaning  equivalent  to- 
that,  in  which  the  term  neutrality  is  used  by  him. 

There  is  the  less  pretext  in  the  present   case,    for  hunting  after 
any  latent  or  extraordinary  object,  because  an  obvious   and   legal 
one  is  at  hand,  to  satisfy  the  occasion  on  Avhich   the   proclamation 
issued.     The  existence  of  war  among  several  nations  with   which 
the  United  States  have  an  extensive  intercfiurse  ;  the   duty   of  the 
executive  to  preserve  peace  by  enforcing  its  laws,  whilst  those  laws 
continued  in  force  ;  the  danger  that  indiscreet   citizens   might   be 
tempted  or  surprised  by  the  crisis,  into  unlawful  proceedings,  tend- 
ing to  involve  the  United  States   in    a    war,    which   the   competent 
authority  might  decide  them  to  be  at  liberty  to  avoid,    and    which, 
if  they  should  be  judged  not  at  liberty  to  avoid,  the  other  party  to 
the  eventual  contract,  might   be   willing  not   to   impose   on  them  ; 
these  surely  might  have  been    sufficient   grounds  for  the   measure 
pursued  by  the  executive  :  and  being  legal    and   rational   grounds, 
it  would  be  wrong,  if  there  be  no  necessity,  to  h)ok  beyond  them. 
If  there  be  any  thing  in  the  proclamation    of  which   the  writer 
could  have  made  a  handle,  it  is  the  part  which  declares,  the  dispo- 
sition, the  dutT/,  and  the  interest  of  the  United    States,   in   relation 
to  the  war  existing  in  Europe.     As  the  legislature  is  the  only  com- 
petent and  constitutional  organ  of  the  will  of  the  nation  ;  that  is, 
of  its  disposition,  its  duty,  and  its  interest,  in    relation   to   a  com- 
mencement of  war,  in  like   manner   as  the  president  and  senate 
jointly,  not  the  president  alone,  are  in  lelation  to  peace,  after   war 
has  been  commenced.. ..I  will  not  dissemble    my   wish    that  a   lan- 
guage less  exposed  to   criticism    had   been   preferred  ;    but  taking 
the  expressions,  in  the  sense  of  the  writer    himself,    as  analogous 
to  the  language  which  might  be  proper,  on  the  reception  of  a  pub- 


HELVIDIUS.  505 

lie  minister,  or  anj  similar  occasion,  it  is  evident  that  his  construc- 
tion can  derive  no  succour  even  from  this  source. 

If  the  proclamalion,  then,  does  not  require  the  construction 
which  this  writer  has  taken  the  liberty  of  putting  on  it;  I  leave  it 
to  be  decided,  whether  the  following  considerations  do  not  forbid 
us  to  suppose,  that  the  president  could  have  intended,  by  that  act, 
to  embrace  and  prejudge  the  legislative  question,  whether  there 
was,  or  was  not,  under  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  a  cause  of 
war  in  the  article  of  guaranty. 

It  has  been  shown  that  such  an  intention  would  have  usurped 
the  prerogative  not  vested  in  the  executive,  and  even  confessedly 
vested  in  another  department. 

In  exercising  the  constitutional  power  of  deciding  a  question  of 
war,  the  leffislature  ought  to  be  as  free  to  decide,  according  to  its 
own  sense  of  the  public  good,  on  one  side  as  on  the  other  side. 
Had  the  proclamation  prejudged  the  question  on  either  side,  and 
proclaimed  its  decision  to  the  ivorld ;  the  legislature,  instead  of  being 
as  free  as  it  ought,  might  be  thrown  under  the  dilemma,  of  either 
sacrificing  its  judgment  to  that  of  the  executive;  or,  by  opposing 
the  executive  judgment,  of  producing  a  retation  between  the  two 
departments,  extremely  delicate  among  ourselves,  and  of  the 
worst  influence  on  the  national  character  and  interests  abroad. 
A  variance  of  this  nature,  it  will  readily  be  perceived,  would  be 
very  difierent  from  a  want  of  conformity  to  the  mere  recommend- 
ations of  the  executive,  in  the  measures  adopted  by  the  legisla- 
ture. 

It  does  not  appear  that  such  a  proclamation  could  have  even 
pleaded  any  call,  from  either  of  the  parties  at  war  with  France, 
for  an  explanation  of  the  light  in  which  the  guaranty  was  view- 
ed. Whilst,  indeed,  no  positive  indication  whatever  was  given  of 
hostile  purposes,  it  is  not  conceived,  that  any  power  could  have 
decently  made  such  an  application  ;  or,  if  it  had,  that  a  procla- 
mation would  have  been  either  a  satisfactory,  or  an  honourable 
answer.  It  could  not  have  been  satisfactory,  if  serious  apprehen- 
sions were  entertained  ;  because  it  would  not  have  proceeded  from 
that  authority  which  alone  could  definitively  pronounce  the  will  of 
the  United  States  on  the  subject.  It  would  not  have  been  honour- 
able, because  a  private  diplomatic  answer,  only,  is  due  to  a  pri- 
vate diplomatic  application ;  and  to  have  done  so  much  more, 
would  have  marked  a  pusillanimity  and  want  of  dignity  in  the  ex- 
ecutive magistrate. 

But  whether  the  executive  was  or  was  not  applied  to,  or   what- 
ever weight  be  allowed  to  that  circumstance,  it  ought  never  to  be 
62 


606  LETTERS  OF 

presumed,  that  the  executive  would  so  abruptly,  so  publicly,  and 
so  solemnly,  proceed  to  disclaim  a  sense  of  the  contract,  which 
the  other  party  niijrht  consider,  and  wish  lo  support  by  discussion, 
as  its  true  and  reasonable  import.  It  is  asked,  indeed,  in  a  tone 
that  sufficiently  displays  the  spirit  in  which  the  writer  construes 
both  the  proclamation  and  the  treaty.  "  Did  the  executive  stand 
*'  in  need  of  the  logic  of  a  foreign  agent  to  enlighten  it  as  to  the 
"  duties  or  the  interests  of  the  nation  ;  or  was  it  bound  to  ask  his 
"consent  to  a  step,  wjiich  appeared  to  itself  consistent  with  the 
"  former,  and  conducive  to  the  latter  7  The  sense  of  treaties  was 
"  to  be  learned  from  the  treaties  themselves."  Had  he  consulted 
his  Vatel  instead  of  his  animosity  to  France,  he  would  have  dis- 
covered, tiiat  however  humiliating  it  might  be  to  M'ait  for  a  foreign 
logic,  to  assist  the  interpretation  of  an  act  depending  on  the  na- 
tional authority  alone,  yet  in  the  case  of  a  treaty,  which  is  as  much 
the  treaty  of  a  foreign  nation,  as  it  is  ours,  and  in  which  foreign 
duties  and  rights  are  as  much  involved  as  ours,  the  sense  of  the 
treaty,  though  to  be  learned  from  the  treaty  itself,  is  to  be  equally 
learned  by  both  parties  to  it.  Neither  of  them  can  have  a  right 
more  than  the  other,  to  say  what  a  particular  article  means ;  and 
where  there  is  equality  without  a  judge,  consultation  is  as  consist- 
ent with  dignity  as  it  is  conducive  to  harmony  and  friendship. 
Let  Vatel  however  be  heard  on  the  subject. 

"  The  third  general  maxim,  or  principle,  on  the  subject  of  inter- 
"  pretation  [of  treaties]  is  :  that  neither  the  one  nor  the  other  of  the  in- 
*'  ttrested  or  contracting  powers  has  a  right  to  interpret  the  act  or  treaty 
"  at  its  pleasure.  For  if  you  are  at  liberty  to  give  my  promise  what 
••  sense  you  please,  you  will  have  the  power  of  obliging  me  to  do 
"  whatever  you  have  a  mind,  contrary  to  my  intention,  and  beyond 
"  my  real  engagement :  and  reciprocally  if  1  am  allowed  to  explain 
*^  my  promises  as  I  phase,  I  may  render  them  vain  and  illusive.,  by 
"giving  them  a  sense  quite  different  from  that  in  which  they  were  pre- 
"  sented  to  you,  and  in  which  you  must  have  taken  them  in  accepting 
"  them:'     Vatel,  B.  II,  c.  vii,  §  265. 

The  writer  ought  to  have  been  particularly  sensible  of  the  im- 
probability that  a  precipitate  and  ex  parte  decision  of  the  question 
arising  under  the  guaranty,  could  have  been  intended  by  the  procla- 
mation. He  had  but  just  gone  through  the  undertaking,  to  prove 
that  the  article  of  guaranty  like  the  rest  of  the  treaty  is  defensive, 
not  offensive.  He  had  examined  his  books  and  retailed  his  quo- 
tations, to  show  that  the  criterion  between  the  two  kinds  of  war 
is  the  circumstance  of  priority  in  the  attack.  He  could  not  there- 
fore but  know,  that  according  to  his  own  principles,  the  question, 


HELVIDIUS.  507 

whether  the  United  States  were  under  an  obligation  or  not  to  take 
part  in  the  war,  was  a  question  of  fact  whether  the  first  attack 
was  made  by  France  or  her  enemies.  And  to  decide  a  question 
of  fact,  as  well  as  of  principle,  without  waiting  for  such  represent- 
ations and  proofs  as  the  absent  and  interested  party  might  have 
to  produce,  would  have  been  a  proceeding  contrary  to  the  ordi- 
nary maxims  of  justice,  and  requiring  circumstances  of  a  very 
peculiar  nature,  to  warrant  it  towards  any  nation.  Towards  a 
nation  which  could  verify  her  claim  to  more  than  bare  justice  by 
our  own  reiterated  and  formal  acknowledgments,  and  which  must 
in  her  present  singular  and  interesting  situation  have  a  peculiar 
sensibility  to  marks  of  our  friendship  or  alienation,  the  improprie- 
ty of  such  a  proceeding  would  be  infinitely  increased,  and  in  the 
same  proportion  the  improbability  of  its  having  taken  place. 

There  are  reasons  of  another  sort  which  would  have  been  a  bar 
to  such  a  proceeding.  It  would  have  been  as  impolitic  as  it  would 
have  been  unfair  and  unkind. 

If  France  meant  not  to  insist  on  the  guaranty,  the  measure,  with- 
out giving  any  present  advantage,  would  have  deprived  the  United 
States  of  a  future  claim  which  may  be  of  importance  to  their  safe- 
ty. It  would  have  inspired  France  with  jealousies  of  a  secret  bias 
in  this  country  toward  some  of  her  enemies,  which  might  have 
left  in  her  breast  a  spirit  of  contempt  and  revenge,  of  which  the 
effects  might  be  felt  in  various  ways.  It  must  in  particular  have 
tended  to  inspire  her  with  a  disinclination  to  feed  our  commerce 
with  those  important  advantages  which  it  already  enjoys,  and 
those  more  iniportant  ones  which  it  anxiously  contemplates.  The 
nation  that  consumes  more  of  the  fruits  of  our  soil  than  any  other 
nation  in  the  world,  and  supplies  the  only  foreign  raw*  material  of 
extensive  use  in  the  United  States,  would  not  be  unnecessarily 
provoked  by  those  who  understand  the  public  interest,  and  make 
it  their  study,  as  it  is  their  duty  to  advance  it. 

I  am  aware  that  the  common-place  remark  will  be  interposed, 
that  "  commercial  privileges  are  not  worth  having,  when  not  se- 
"  cured  by  mutual  interest ;  and  never  worth  purchasing  because 
"  they  will  grow  of  themselves  out  of  a  mutual  interest."  Prudent 
men,  who  do  not  suffer  their  reason  to  be  misled  by  their  preju- 
dices, will  view  the  subject  in  a  juster  light.  They  will  reflect, 
that  if  commercial  privileges  are  not  worth  purchasing,  they  are 
worth  having  without  purchase  ;  that  in  the  commerce  of  a  great 
nation,  there  are  valuable  privileges  which  may  be  granted  or  not 

*  Molasset. 


508  LETTERS  OF 

granted,  or  granted  either  to  this  or  that  country,  without  any 
sensible  influence  on  the  interest  of  the  nation  itself;  that  the 
friendly  or  unfriendly  disposition  of  a  country,  is  always  an  article 
of  moment  in  the  calculations  of  a  comprehensive  interest ;  that 
some  sacrifices  of  interest  will  he  made  to  other  motives,  by  na- 
tions as  well  as  by  individuals,  though  not  with  the  same  frequen- 
cy, or  in  the  same  proportions  ;  that  more  of  a  disinterested  con- 
duct, or  of  a  conduct  founded  on  liberal  views  of  interest,  prevails 
in  some  nations  than  in  others  ;  that  as  far  as  can  be  seen  of  the 
influence  of  the  revolution  on  the  genius  and  the  policy  of  France, 
particularly  with  regard  to  the  United  States,  every  thing  is  to  be 
hoped  by  the  latter  on  this  subject,  which  one  country  can  reason- 
ably hope  from  another.  In  this  point  of  view,  a  greater  errour 
could  not  have  been  committed  than  in  a  step  that  might  have 
turned  the  present  disposition  of  France  to  open  her  commerce  to 
us  as  far  as  a  liberal  calculation  of  her  interest  would  permit,  and 
her  friendship  towards  us,  and  confidence  in  our  friendship  to- 
wards her,  could  prompt,  into  a  disposition  to  shut  it  as  closely 
ao-ainst  us  as  the  united  motives  of  interest,  of  distrust,  and  of  ill 
will,  could  urge  her. 

On  the  supposition  that  France  might  intend  to  claim  tlie  guar- 
anty, a  hasty  and  harsh  refusal  before  we  were  asked,  on  a  ground 
that  accused  her  of  being  the  aggressor  in  the  war  against  every 
power  in  the  catalunfue  of  her  enemies,  and  in  a  crisis  wiien  all 
her  sensibility  must  be  alive  towards  the  United  States,  Avould 
have  given  every  possible  irritation  to  a  disappointment  which 
every  motive  that  one  nation  could  feel  towards  another  and  to- 
wards itself,  required  to  be  alleviated  by  all  the  circumspection 
and  delicacy  that  could  be  applied  to  the  occasion. 

The  silence  of  the  executive,  since  the  accession  of  Spain  and 
Portugal  to  the  war  against  France,  throws  great  light  on  the 
present  discussion.  Had  the  proclamation  been  issued  in  the 
sense,  and  for  the  purposes  ascribed  to  it,  that  is  to  say,  as  a  de- 
claration of  neutrality,  another  would  have  followed,  on  that  event. 
If  it  was  the  right  and  duty  of  the  government,  that  is,  the  presi- 
dent, to  manifest  to  Great  Britain  and  Holland,  and  to  the  Ameri- 
can merchants  and  citizens,  bis  sense,  his  disposition,  and  his  views 
on  the  question,  whether  the  United  States  were,  under  the  circum- 
stances  of  the  case,  bound  or  not,  to  execute  the  clause  of  guaranty, 
and  not  to  leave  it  uncertain,  whether  the  executive  did  or  did  not  be- 
lieve a  state  of  neutrality  to  be  consistent  with  our  treaties ;  the 
duty  as  well  as  the  right,  prescribed  a  similar  manifestation  to  all 


HELVIDIUS.  509 

the  parties  concerned,  after*  Spain  and  Portugal  had  joined  the 
other  maritime  enemies  of  France.  The  opinion  of  the  executive 
with  respect  to  a  consistency  or  inconsistency  of  neutrality  with 
treaties,  in  the  latter  case,  could  not  be  inferred  from  the  proclama- 
tion in  the  former,  because  the  circumstances  might  be  different: 
the  war  in  the  latter  case,  might  be  defensive  on  the  side  of  France, 
though  otfensive  against  her  other  enemies.  Taking  the  procla- 
mation in  its  proper  sense,  as  reminding  all  concerned,  that  as  the 
United  States  were  at  peace,  (that  state  not  being  affected  by  for- 
eign wars,  and  only  to  be  changed  by  the  legislative  authority  of 
the  country,)  the  laws  of  peace  were  still  obligatory,  and  would 
be  enforced  :  and  the  inference  is  so  obvious  and  so  applicable  to 
all  other  cases,  whatever  circumstances  may  distinguish  them,  that 
another  proclamation  would  be  unnecessary.  Here  is  a  new  as- 
pect of  the  whole  subject,  admonishing  us  in  the  most  striking 
manner  at  once  of  the  danger  of  the  preiogative  contend- 
ed for,  and  the  absurdity  of  the  distinctions  and  arguments  em- 
ployed in  its  favour.  It  would  be  as  impossible  in  practice,  as  it 
is  in  theory,  to  separate  the  power  of  judging  and  concluding  that 
the  obligations  of  a  treaty  do  not  impose  war,  from  tliat  of  judg- 
ing and  concluding  that  the  obligations  do  impose  tvar.  In  certain 
cases,  silence  would  proclaim  the  latter  conclusion,  as  intelligibly 
as  words  could  do  the  former.  The  writer  indeed  has  himself 
abandoned  the  distinction  in  his  seventh  paper,  by  declaring  ex- 
pressly that  tlie  object  of  the  proclamation  would  have  been  de- 
feated "  by  leaving  it  uncertain,  whether  the  executive  did  or  did 
"  not  believe  a  state  of  neutrality  to  be  consistent  with  our  trea- 
♦«  ties."  HELVIDIUS. 

*  The  writer  is  beiraj'ed  into  an  acknowledgment  of  this  in  his  seventh  number,  where 
he  applies  his  reasoning;  lo  Spain  as  well  as  to  Great  Britain  and  Ho)laud.  He  had  forgot- 
ten  thai  Spain  was  not  included  in  the  proclamation. 


THE  ORIGINAL 

AliTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION, 


TO    ALL    TO    WHOM    THESE    PRESENTS    SHALL    COME, 

We,  the  undersigned  delegates  of  the  states  affixed  to  our  names,  send 

greeting. 
Whereas  the  delegates  of  the  United  States  of  America  in  con- 
gress assembled  did,  on  the  fifteenth  day  of  November,  in  the  year 
of  our  Lord  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  seventy-seven,  and 
in  the  second  year  of  the  independence  of  America,  agree  to  cer- 
tain articles  of  confederation  and  perpetual  union  between  the 
states  of  New  Hampshire,  Massachusetts  Bay,  Rhode  Island  and 
Providence  Plantations,  Connecticut,  New  York,  New  Jersey, 
Pennsylvania,  Delaware,  Maryland,  Virginia,  North  Carolina, 
South  Carolina,  and  Georgia,  in  the  words  following,  viz.  : 

Articles  of  confederation  and  perpetual  union  between  the  states  of 
New  Hampshire,  Massachusetts  Bay,  Rhode  Island  and  Provi- 
dence Plantations,  Connecticut,  New  York,  New  Jersey,  Pennsyl- 
vania, Delaware,  Maryland,  Virginia,  North  Carolina,  South 
Carolina,  and  Georgia. 

Article  I.  The  style  of  this  confederacy  shall  be  "  The  Unit- 
ed States  of  America." 

Art.  II.  Each  state  retains  its  sovereignty,  freedom,  and  in- 
dependence, and  every  power,  jurisdiction,  and  right,  which  is  not 
by  this  confederation  expressly  delegated  to  the  United  States  in 
congress  assembled. 

Art.  III.  The  said  states  hereby  severally  enter  into  a  firm 
league  of  friendship  with  each  other,  for  their  common  defence, 
the  security  of  their  liberties,  and  their  mutual  and  general  wel- 
fare ;  binding  themselves  to  assist  each  other,  against  all  force 
offered  to,  or  attacks  made  upon  them,  or  any  of  them,  on  account 
of  religion,  sovereignty,  trade,  or  any  other  pretence  whatever. 

Art.  IV.  The  better  to  secure  and  perpetuate  mutual  friend- 
ship and  intercourse  among  the  people  of  the  different  states  in 


ARTICLES  OF  CONFEDERATION.  511 

this  union,  the  free  inhabitants  of  each  of  these  states,  paupers, 
vagabonds,  and  fugitives  from  justice  excepted,  shall  be  entitled  to 
all  privileges  and  immunities  of  free  citizens  in  the  several  states; 
and  the  people  of  each  state  shall  have  free  ingress  and  regress 
to  and  from  any  other  state,  and  shall  enjoy  therein  all  the  privi- 
leges of  trade  and  commerce,  subject  to  the  same  duties,  imposi- 
tions, and  restrictions  as  the  inhabitants  thereof  respectively,  pro- 
vided that  such  restrictions  shall  not  extend  so  far  as  to  prevent 
the  removal  of  property  imported  into  any  state,  to  any  other 
state  of  which  the  owner  is  an  inhabitant ;  provided  also  that  no 
imposition,  duties,  or  restriction  shall  be  laid  by  any  state,  on  the 
property  of  the  United  States,  or  either  of  them. 

If  any  person  guilty  of,  or  charged  with  treason,  felony,  or  other 
high  misdemeanor  in  any  state,  shall  flee  from  justice,  and  be 
found  in  any  of  the  United  States,  he  shall,  upon  demand  of  the 
government  or  executive  power  of  the  state  from  which  he  fled, 
be  delivered  up  and  removed  to  the  state  having  jurisdiction  of 
his  oflfence. 

Full  faith  and  credit  shall  be  given  in  each  of  these  states  ta 
the  records,  acts  and  judicial  proceedings  of  the  courts  and  mag- 
istrates of  every  other  state. 

Art.  V.  For  the  more  convenient  management  of  the  general 
interests  of  the  United  States,  delegates  shall  be  annually  appoint- 
ed, in  such  manner  as  the  legislature  of  each  state  shall  direct,  to 
meet  in  congress  on  the  first  Monday  in  November,  in  every  year; 
with  a  power  reserved  to  each  state,  to  recall  its  delegates,  or  any 
of  them,  at  any  time  within  the  year,  and  to  send  others  in  their 
stead,  for  the  remainder  of  the  year. 

No  state  shall  be  represented  in  congress  by  less  than  two,  nor 
by  more  than  seven  members;  and  no  person  shall  be  capable  of 
being  a  delegate  for  more  than  three  years  in  any  term  of  six 
years  ;  nor  shall  any  person,  being  a  delegate,  be  capable  of  hold- 
ing any  oflSce  under  the  United  States,  for  which  he,  or  another 
for  his  benefit,  receives  any  salary,  fees,  or  emolument  of  any 
kind. 

Each  state  shall  maintain  its  own  delegates  in  a  meeting  of  the 
states,  and  while  they  act  as  menibers  of  the  committee  of  the 
states. 

In  determining  questions  in  the  United  States,  in  congress  as- 
sembled, each  state  shall  have  one  vote. 

Freedom  of  speech  and  debate  in  congress  shall  not  be  im- 
peached or  questioned  in  any  court,  or  place  out  of  congress,  and 
the  members  of  congress  shall  be  protected  in  their  persons  from 


612  ARTICLES  OF 

arrests  and  imprisonments,  during  the  time  of  their  going  to,  and 
from,  and  attendance  on  congress,  except  for  treason,  felony,  or 
breach  of  the  peace. 

Art.  V[.  No  state,  without  the  consent  of  the  United  States 
in  congress  assembled,  shall  send  any  embassy  to,  or,  receive  any 
embassy  from,  or  enter  into  any  conference,  agreement,  alliance, 
or  treaty  with  any  king,  prince,  or  state  ;  nor  shall  any  person 
holding  any  office  of  profit  or  trust  under  the  United  States,  or 
any  of  them,  accept  of  any  present,  emolument,  office,  or  title  of 
any  kind  whatever  from  any  king,  prince,  or  foreign  state  ;  nor 
shall  the  United  States  in  congress  assembled,  or  any  of  them, 
grant  any  title  of  nobility. 

No  two  or  more  states  shall  enter  into  any  treaty,  confederation, 
or  alliance  whatever  between  them,  without  the  consent  of  the 
United  States  in  congress  assembled,  specifying  accurately  the 
purposes  for  which  the  same  is  to  be  entered  into,  and  how  long 
it  shall  continue.- 

No  state  shall  lay  any  imposts  or  duties,  which  may  interfere 
vith  any  stipulations  in  treaties,  entered  into  by  the  United  States 
in  congress  assembled,  with  any  king,  prince,  or  state,  in  pursu- 
ance of  any  treaties  already  proposed  by  congress,  to  the  courts 
of  France  and  Spain. 

No  vessels  of  war  shall  be  kept  up  in  time  of  peace  by  any 
state,  except  such  number  only,  as  shall  be  deemed  necessary  by 
the  United  States  in  congress  assembled,  for  the  defence  of  such 
state,  or  its  trade  ;  nor  shall  any  body  of  forces  be  kept  up  by  any 
state,  in  time  of  peace,  except  such  number  only,  as  in  the  judg- 
ment of  the  United  States,  in  congress  assembled,  shall  be  deem- 
ed requisite  to  garrison  the  forts  necessary  for  the  defence  of  such 
state  ;  but  every  state  shall  always  keep  up  a  well  regulated  and 
disciplined  militia,  sufficiently  armed  and  accoutred,  and  shall 
provide  and  constantly  have  ready  for  use,  in  public  stores,  a  due 
number  of  fieldpieces  and  tents,  and  a  proper  quantity  of  arms, 
ammunition,  and  camp-equipage. 

No  state  shall  engage  in  any  war  without  the  consent  of  the 
United  States  in  congress  assembled,  unless  such  state  be  actually 
invaded  by  enemies,  or  shall  have  received  certain  advice  of  a 
resolution  being  formed  by  some  nation  of  Indians  to  invade  such 
state,  and  the  danger  is  so  imminent  as  not  to  admit  of  a  delay, 
till  the  United  States  in  congress  assembled  can  be  consulted :  nor 
shall  any  state  grant  commissions  to  any  ships  or  vessels  of  war, 
nor  letters  of  marque  or  reprisal,  except  it  be  after  a  declaration 
of  war  by  the  United  States  in  congress  assembled,  and  then  only 


CONFEDERATION.  513 

against  the  kingdom  or  state  and  the  subjects  thereof,  against 
which  war  has  been  so  declared,  and  under  such  regulations  as 
shall  be  established  by  the  United  States  in  congress  assembled  ; 
unless  such  state  be  infested  by  pirates,  in  which  case  vessels  of 
war  may  be  fitted  out  for  that  occasion,  and  kept  so  long  as  the 
danger  shall  continue,  or  until  the  United  States  in  congress  as- 
sembled shall  determine  otherwise. 

Art.  VII.  When  land  forces  are  raised  by  any  state  for  the 
common  defence,  ail  officers  of  or  under  the  rank  of  colonel  shall 
be  appointed  by  the  legislature  of  each  state  respectively,  by  whom 
such  forces  shall  be  raised,  or  in  such  manner  us  such  state  shall 
direct ;  and  all  vacancies  shall  be  filled  up  by  the  state  which  first 
made  the  appointment. 

Art.  VIII.  All  charges  of  war,  and  all  other  expenses  that 
shall  be  incurred  for  the  common  defence  or  general  welfare,  and 
allowed  by  the  United  States  in  congresir  assembled,  shall  be  de- 
frayed out  of  a  common  treasury,  which  shall  be  supplied  by  the 
several  states,  in  proportion  to  the  value  of  all  land  within  ( ach 
state,  granted  to  or  surveyed  for  any  person,  as  such  land  and  tiie 
buildings  and  improvements  thereon  shall  be  estimated,  according 
to  such  mode  as  the  United  States  in  congress  as^sembled  shall 
from  tin)e  to  time  direct  and  appoint. 

The  taxes  for  paying  that  proportion  shall  be  laid  and  levied 
by  the  authority  and  direction  of  the  legislatures  of  the  several 
states,  w  ithin  the  time  agreed  upon  by  the  United  States  in  con- 
gress  assembled. 

Art.  IX.  The  United  States  in  congress  assembled  shall  have 
the  sole  and  exclusive  right  and  power  of  determining  on  peace 
and  war,  except  in  the  cases  mentioned  in  the  sixth  article.. ..of 
sending  and  receiving  ambassadors. ...entering  into  treaties  and  al- 
liances, provided  that  no  treaty  of  commerce  shall  be  made, 
whereby  the  legislative  power  of  the  respective  states  shall  he  re- 
strained from  imposing  such  imposts  and  duties  on  foreigners,  as 
their  own  people  are  subjected  to,  or  finm  prohibiting  the  expmtsv 
tion  or  importation  of  any  species  oi  goods  or  commodities  v\  hat- 
soever...  of  establishing  rules  for  deciding,  in  all  cases,  what  cai)* 
tures  on  land  or  water  shall  be  le2:al,  and  in  what  manner  prizes 
taken  by  land  or  naval  forces  in  the  service  of  the  United  States 
shall  be  divided  or  approj)riated.,..of  granting  letters  of  marque 
and  reprisal  in  times  of  peace... .appointing  courts  ihr  the  trial  of 
piracies  and  felonies  committed  on  the  high  seas.. ..and  estabiish- 
ing  courts  for  receiving  and  determining  finally  appeals  in  all 
63 


514  ARTICLES  OF 

cases  of  captures,  provided  that  no  member  of  congress  shall  be 
appointed  a  judge  of  any  of  the  said  courts. 

The  United  States  in  congress  assembled  shall  also  be  the  last 
resort  on  appeal  in  all  disputes  and  differences  now  subsisting,  or 
that  hereafter  may  arise  between  two  or  more  states,  concerning 
boundary,  jurisdiction,  or  any  other  cause  whatever  ;  which  au- 
thority shall  always  be  exercised  in  the  manner  following.  When- 
ever the  legislative  or  executive  authority,  or  lawful  agent  of  any 
state  in  controversy  with  another,  shall  present  a  petition  to  con- 
gress, stating  the  matter  in  question,  and  praying  for  a  hearing, 
notice  thereof  shall  be  given  by  order  of  congress  to  the  legisla- 
tive or  executive  authority  of  the  other  state  in  controversy,  and 
a  day  assigned  for  the  appearance  of  the  parties  by  their  lawful 
agents,  who  shall  then  be  directed  to  appoint,  by  joint  consent, 
commissioners  or  judges  to  constitute  a  court  for  hearing  and  de- 
termining the  matter  in  question  :  but  if  they  cannot  agree, 
congress  shall  name  three  persons  out  of  each  of  the  United 
States,  and  from  the  list  of  such  persons  each  party  shall  alter- 
nately strike  out  one,  the  petitioners  beginning,  until  the  number 
shall  be  reduced  to  thirteen  ;  and  from  that  number  not  less  than 
seven,  nor  more  than  nine  names,  as  congress  shall  direct,  shall  in 
the  presence  of  congress  be  drawn  out  by  lot,  and  the  persons 
whose  names  shall  be  so  drawn,  or  any  five  of  them,  shall  be  com- 
missioners or  judges,  to  hear  and  finally  determine  the  controversy, 
so  always  as  a  major  part  of  the  judges  who  shall  hear  the  cause 
shall  agree  in  the  determination  :  and  if  either  party  shall  neg- 
lect to  attend  at  the  day  appointed,  without  shovving  reasons  which 
congress  shall  judge  sufiicient,  or  being  present  shall  refuse  to 
strike,  the  congress  shall  proceed  to  nominate  three  persons  out 
of  each  state,  and  the  secretary  of  congress  shall  strike  in  behalf 
of  such  party  absent  or  refusing  ;  and  the  judgment  and  sentence 
of  the  court  to  be  appointed,  in  the  manner  before  prescribed, 
shall  be  final  and  conclusive  ;  and  if  any  of  the  parties  shall  re- 
fuse to  submit  to  the  authority  of  such  court,  or  to  appear  or  de- 
fend their  claim  or  cause,  the  court  shall  nevertheless  proceed  to 
pronounce  sentence,  or  judgment,  which  shall  in  like  manner  be 
final  and  decisive  ;  the  judgment  or  sentence  and  other  proceed- 
ings being  in  either  case  transmitted  to  congress,  and  lodged 
among  the  acts  of  congress,  for  the  security  of  the  parties  con- 
cerned :  provided  that  every  commissioner,  before  he  sits  in  judg- 
ment, shall  take  an  oath,  to  be  administered  by  one  of  the  judges 
of  the  supreme  or  superior  court  of  the  state,  where  the  cause 
shall  be  tried,  "  well  and  truly  to  hear  and  determine  the  matter  in 


CONFEDERATION.  615 

"  question,  according  to  the  best  of  his  judgment,  without  favour^ 
"  affection,  or  hope  of  reward: "  provided  also  that  no  state  shall  be 
deprived  of  territory  for  the  benefit  of  the  United  States. 

All  controversies  concerning  the  private  right  of  soil,  claimed 
under  different  grants  of  two  or  more  states,  whose  jurisdictions, 
as  they  may  respect  such  lands,  and  the  states  which  passed  such 
grants,  are  adjusted,  the  said  grants  or  either  of  them  being  at 
the  same  time  claimed  to  have  originated  antecedent  to  such  set- 
tlement of  jurisdiction,  shall,  on  the  petition  of  either  party  to 
the  congress  of  the  United  States,  be  finally  determined  as  near 
as  may  be  in  the  same  manner  as  is  before  prescribed  for  deciding 
disputes  respecting  territorial  jurisdiction  between  different  states. 

The  United  States  in  cnnijress  assembled  shall  also  have  the 
sole  and  exclusive  ri^rht  and  power  of  regulating  the  alloy  and 
value  of  coin  struck  by  their  own  authority,  or  by  that  of  the  re- 
spective states.. ..fixing  the  standard  of  weights  and  measures 
throughout  the  United  States.. ..regulating  the  trade  and  manag- 
ing all  aff"Liirs  with  the  Indians,  not  members  of  any  of  the  states, 
provided  that  the  legislative  right  of  any  state  within  its  own  lim- 
its be  not  infringed  or  violated.. ..establishing  and  regulating  post- 
offices  from  one  state  to  another,  throughout  all  the  United  States, 
and  exacting  such  postage  on  the  papers  passing  through  the  same 
as  may  be  requisite  to  defray  the  expenses  of  the  said  office. ...ap- 
pointing all  officers  of  the  land  forces,  in  the  service  of  the  Unit- 
ed States,  excepting  regimental  officers.. ..appointing  all  the  offi- 
cers of  the  naval  forces,  and  commissioning  all  officers  whatever 
in  the  service  of  the  United  States.. ..making  rules  for  the  govern- 
ment and  regulation  of  the  said  land  and  navel  forces,  and  direct- 
ing their  operations. 

The  United  States  in  congress  assembled  shall  have  authority 
to  appoint  a  committee,  to  sit  in  the  recess  of  congress,  to  be  de- 
nominated "  a  committe  of  the  states,"  and  to  consist  of  one  dele- 
gate from  each  state  ;  and  to  appoint  such  other  committees  and 
civil  officers  as  may  be  necessary  for  managing  the  general  affiiirs 
of  the  United  States  under  their  direction....to  appoint  one  of  their 
number  to  preside,  provided  that  no  person  be  allowed  to  serve  in 
the  office  of  president  more  than  one  year  in  any  term  of  three 
years  ;  to  ascertain  the  necessary  sums  of  tnoney  to  be  raised  for 
the  service  of  the  United  States,  and  to  appropriate  and  apply  the 
same  for  defraying  the  public  expenses.... to  borrow  money,  or 
emit  bills  on  the  credit  of  the  United  States,  transmitting  every 
half  year  to  the  respective  states  an  account  of  the  sums  of  money 
so  borrowed  or  eraitted....to  build  and  equip  a  navy....to  agree  upon 


516  ARTICLES  OF 

the  number  of  land  forces,  and  to  make  requisitions  from  each 
state  for  its  quota  in  proportion  to  the  number  of  white  inhabit- 
ants in  such  state  ;  which  requisitions  shall  be  binding,  and  there- 
upoiythe  je&lt;&gt;islarure  of  each  stale  L;hall  appoint  the  re&lt;&gt;imental 
officers,  raise  the  men,  and  clothe,  arm,  and  equip  them  in  a  sol- 
dierlike manner,  at  the  expense  of  the  United  States  ;  and  the 
officers  and  men  so  clothed,  armed,  and  equipped,  shall  march  to 
the  place  appointed,  and  within  the  time  agreed  on  by  the  United 
States  in  conoress  assembled  :  but  if  the  United  States  in  con- 
gress assembled  shall,  on  consideration  of  circumstances,  judge 
proper  that  any  state  should  not  raise  men,  or  should  raise  a 
smaller  number  than  its  quota,  and  that  any  other  state  should 
raise  a  greater  number  of  men  than  the  quota  thereof,  such  ex- 
tra mimber  shall  be  raised,  officered,  clothed,  armed,  and  equip- 
ped in  the  same  manner  as  the  quota  of  such  state,  unless  the 
legislature  of  such  state  shall  judge  that  such  extra  number  can- 
not be  safely  spared  out  of  the  same,  in  which  case  they  shall 
raise,  officer,  clothe,  arm  and  equip  as  many  of  such  extra  num- 
ber as  they  judge  can  be  safely  spared.  And  the  officers  and  men 
so  clothed,  armed,  and  equipped,  shall  march  to  the  place  appoint- 
ed, and  within  the  time  agreed  on  by  the  United  States  in  congress 
asstMid»led. 

The  United  States  in  congress  assembled  shall  never  engage  in  a 
war,  nor  grant  letters  of  marque  and  reprisal  in  time  of  peace,  nor 
enter  into  any  treaties  or  alliances,  nor  coin  money,  nor  regulate 
the  vsdue  thereof,  nor  ascertain  the  sums  and  expenses  necessary 
for  the  defence  and  welfare  of  the  United  States,  or  any  of  them, 
nor  emit  bills,  nor  borrow  money  on  the  credit  of  the  United 
States,  nor  appropriate  money,  nor  agree  upon  the  nimiber  of 
vessels  of  war,  to  be  built  or  puichased,  or  the  number  of  land  or 
sea  forces  to  be  raised,  nor  appoint  a  commander  in  chief  of  the 
army  or  navy,  unless  nine  states  assent  to  the  same  :  nor  shall  a 
question  on  any  other  point,  except  for  adjourning  from  day  to 
day,  be  determined,  unless  by  the  votes  of  a  majority  of  the  Unit- 
ed States  in   congress  asseml)led. 

The  congress  of  the  United  States  shall  have  power  to  adjourn 
to  any  time  within  the  year,  and  to  any  place  within  the  United 
States,  so  that  no  pericjd  of  adjournment  be  for  a  longer  duration 
than  the  space  of  six  montlis  ;  and  shall  publish  the  journal  of 
their  proceedings  monthly,  excejjt  such  parts  thereof  relating  to 
treaties,  alliances,  or  military  operations,  as  in  their  judgment  re- 
quire secrecy  ;  and  the  yeas  and  nays  of  the  delegates  of  each 
state  on  any  question  shall  be  entered  on  the  journal,  when  it  is 


CONFEDERATION.  517 

desired  by  any  delpc'ate ;  and  the  delegates  of  a  state,  or  any  of 
them,  at  his  or  their  request,  shall  he  furnished  with  a  transcript  of 
the  said  journal,  except  such  parts  as  are  above  excepted,  to  lay 
before  the  lejrishitiires  of  the  several  states. 

Art.  X.  The  committee  of  the  states,  or  any  nine  of  them, 
shall  be  authorized  to  execute,  in  the  recess  of  congress,  such  of 
the  powers  of  congress  as  the  United  States  in  congress  assem- 
bled, by  the  consent  of  nine  states,  shall  from  time  to  time  think 
expedient  to  vest  them  with  ;  provided  that  no  power  be  deleo-at- 
ed  to  the  said  committee,  for  the  exercise  of  which,  by  the  arti- 
cles of  confederation,  the  voice  of  nine  states  in  the  congress  of 
the  United  States  assenjbled  is  requisite. 

Art.  XI.  Canada  acceding  to  this  confederation,  and  joinino- 
in  the  measures  of  the  United  States,  shall  be  admitted  into,  and 
entitled  to  all  the  advauiages  of  this  union  :  but  no  other  colony 
shall  be  admitted  into  the  same,  unless  such  admission  be  ao-reed 
to  by  nine  states. 

Art.  XII.  All  bills  of  credit  emitted,  moneys  borrowed,  and 
debts  contracted  by,  or  under  the  authority  of  congress,  before  the 
assembling  of  the  United  States,  in  pursuance  of  the  present  con- 
federation, shall  be  deemed  and  considered  as  a  charge  against  the 
United  States,  for  payment  and  satisfaction  whereof,  the  said  Unit- 
ed States,  and  the  public  faith  are  hereby  solemnly  pledged. 

Art.  XIII.  Every  state  shall  abide  by  the  determinations  of 
the  United  States  in  congress  assembled,  on  all  questions  which  by 
this  confederation  are  submitted  to  them.  And  the  articles  of  this 
confederation  shall  be  inviolably  observed  by  every  state,  and  the 
union  shall  be  jjerpetual  ;  nor  shall  any  alteration  at  any  time 
hereafter  be  made  in  any  of  them,  unless  such  alteration  be  agreed 
to  by  a  congress  of  the  United  States,  and  be  afterwards  confirm- 
ed by  the  legislatures  of  every  state. 

And  whereas  it  huth  pleased  the  great  Governour  of  the  world 
to  incline  the  hearts  of  the  legislatures  we  respectively  represent 
in  congress,  to  approve  of,  and  to  authorize  us  to  ratify  the  said 
articles  of  confederation  and  perpetual  union  :  Know  ye,  that  we 
the  undersigned  delegates,  by  virtue  of  the  power  and  authority  to 
us  given  for  that  purpose,  do  by  these  presents,  in  the  name  and 
in  behalf  of  our  respective  constituents,  fully  and  entirely  ratify 
and  confirm  each  and  every  of  the  said  articles  of  confederation 
and  perpetual  union,  and  all  and  singular  the  matters  and  things 
therein  contained  :  and  wo  do  further  solemnly  plight  and  engage 
the  faith  of  our  respective  constituents,  that  they  shall  abide  by 
the  determinations  of  the   United  States  in  congress  assembled, 


518  ARTICLES  OF 

on  all  questions,  which  by  the  said  confederation  are  submitted  to 
them  ;  and  that  the  articles  thereof  shall  be  inviolably  observed 
by  the  states  we  respectively  represent,  and  that  the  union  shall 
be  perpetual. 

In  witness  whereof,  we  have  hereunto  set  our  hands  in  congress. 
Done  at  Philadelphia  in  the  state  of  Pennsylvania  the  ninth  day 
of  July  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and 
seventy-eight,  and  in  the  third  year  of  the  independence  of  Amer- 
ica. 

On  tJie  part  and  behalf  of  the  state  of  New  Hampshire. 
JosiAH  Bartlett,         John  Wentworth,  jun.,        August  8,  1778. 

On  the  part  and  behalf  of  the  state  of  Massachusetts  Bay. 
John  Hancock,  Francis  Dana, 

Samuel  Adams,  James  Lovell, 

Elbridge  Gerry,  Samuel  Holten. 

On  the  part  and  behalf  of  the  state  of  Rhode  Island  and  Providence 

Plantations. 
William  Ellery,  John  Collins. 

Henry  Marchant, 

On  the  part  and  behalf  of  the  state  of  Connecticut. 
Roger  Sherman,  Titus  Hosmer, 

Samuel  Huntington,  Andrew  Adams. 

Oliver  Wolcott, 

On  the  part  and  behalf  of  the  state  of  Neio  York. 
Jas.  Duane,  William  Duer, 

Era.  Lewis,  Gouv.  Morris. 

On  the  part  and  behalf  of  the  state  of  New  Jersey. 
Jno.  Withersi'oon,  Nov.  20,  1778.  Nath.  Scudder,  do. 

On  the  part  and  behalf  of  the  state  of  Pennsylvania. 
Robt.  Morris,  William  Clingan, 

Daniel  Robekdeau,  Jos.  Reed,  22d  July,  1778. 

JoNA.  Bayard  Smith, 

On  the  part  and  behalf  of  the  state  of  Delaware. 
Thos.  M'  Rean,  Feb.  13,  1779.  Nicholas  Van  Dyke. 

John  Dickinson,  May  5th,  1779. 

On  the  part  and  behalf  of  the  state  of  Maryland. 
John  Hanson,  March  1,  1781.  Daniel  Carroll,  do. 

On  the  part  and  behalf  of  the  state  of  Virginia. 
Richard  Henrv  Lee,  Jno.  Harvie, 

John  Banister,  Francis  Lightfoot  Lee, 

Thomas  Adams, 


CONFEDERATION.  519 

On  the  part  and  behalf  of  the  state  of  North  Carolina. 
John  Penn,  July  21st,  1778.  Jno.  Williams. 

Corns.  Harnett, 

On  the  part  and  behalf  of  the  state  of  South  Carolina, 
Henrt  Laurens,  Richard  Hutson, 

William  Henry  Drayton,  Thomas  Heyward,  jun. 

Jno.  Mathews, 

Ore  the  part  and  behalf  of  the  state   of  Georgia. 
Jno.  Walton,  24th  July,  1778.  Edw.  Langworthy. 

Edwd.  Telfair, 

[Note. ...From  ihe  circumstance  of  delegatPS  from  the  same  stale  having'  signed  the  ar- 
ticles of  confederation  at  different  times,  as  appears  by  the  dates,  it  is  probable  they  affix- 
ed their  names  as  they  happened  to  be  present  in  congress,  after  they  had  been  authorized 
by  their  couslitueiils.] 


CONSTITUTION  OF 

THE  UNITED  STATES, 


We  the  people  of  the  United  States,  in  order  to  form  a  more 
perfect  union,  establish  justice,  ensure  domestic  tranquillity,  pro- 
vide for  the  common  defence,  promote  the  general  welfare,  and 
secure  the  blessings  of  liberty  to  ourselves  and  our  posterity,  do 
ordain  and  establish  this  constitution  for  the  United  States  of 
America. 

ARTICLE  I. 

Sec.  1.  All  legislative  powers  herein  granted  shall  be  vested 
in  a  congress  of  the  United  States,  which  shall  consist  of  a  senate 
and  house  of  representatives. 

Sec.  2.  The  house  of  representatives  shall  be  composed  of 
members  chosen  every  second  year  by  the  people  of  the  several 
states,  and  the  electors  in  each  state  shall  have  the  qualifications 
requisite  for  electors  of  the  most  numerous  branch  of  the  state 
legislature. 

No  person  shall  be  a  representative  who  shall  not  have  attained 
to  the  age  of  twenty-five  years,  and  been  seven  years  a  citizen  of 
the  United  States,  and  who  shall  not,  when  elected,  be  an  inhabit- 
ant of  that  state  in  which  he  shall  be  chosen. 

Representatives  and  direct  taxes  shall  be  apportioned  among 
the  several  states  which  may  be  included  within  this  union,  accord- 
ing to  their  respective  numbers,  which  shall  be  determined  by  add- 
ing to  the  whole  number  of  free  persons,  including  those  bound  !o 
service  for  a  term  of  years,  and  excluding  Indians  not  taxed,  three 
fifths  of  all  other  persons.  The  actual  enumr;,  .^un  shall  be 
made  within  three  years  after  the  first  meeting  of  tlie  congress  of 
the  United  States,  and  within  every  subsequent  term  of  ten  years, 
in  such  manner  as  they  shall  by  law  direct.  The  number  of  rep- 
resentatives shall  not  exceed  one  for  every  thirty  thousand,  but 
each  state  shall  have  at  least  one  representative  :  and  unlil  such 
enumeration  shall  be  made,  the  state  of  New  Hampshire  shall  be 
entitled  to  choose  three,  Massachusetts  eight,  Rhode  Island  and 
Providence  Plantations  one,  Connecticut  five.  New  York  six.  New 
Jersey  four,  Pennsylvania  eight,  Delaware  one,  Maryland  six,  Vir- 


CONSTITUTION  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES.      521 

ginia  ten,  North  Carolina  five,  South  Carolina  five,  and  Georgia 
three. 

When  vacancies  happen  in  the  representation  from  any  state, 
the  executive  authority  thereof  shall  issue  writs  of  election  to  fill 
such  vacancies. 

The  house  of  representatives  shall  choose  their  speaker  and 
other  officers  ;  and  shall  have  the  sole  povver  of  impeachment. 

Sec.  3.  The  senate  of  the  United  States  shall  be  composed  of 
two  senators  from  each  state,  chosen  by  the  legislature  thereof,  for 
six  years  ;  and  each  senator  shall  have  one  vote. 

Immediately  after  they  shall  be  assembled  in  consequence  of 
the  first  election,  they  shall  be  divided  as  equally  as  may  be  into 
three  classes.  The  seats  of  the  senators  of  the  first  class  shall  be 
vacated  at  the  expiration  of  the  second  year,  of  the  second  class 
at  the  expiration  of  the  fourth  year,  and  of  the  third  class  at  the 
expiration  of  the  sixth  year,  so  that  one  third  may  be  chosen  every 
second  year  ;  and  if  vacancies  happen  by  resignation,  or  other- 
wise, during  the  recess  of  the  legislature  of  any  state,  the  execu- 
tive thereof  may  make  temporary  appointments  until  the  next 
meeting  of  the  legislature,  which  shall  then  fill  such  vacancies. 

No  person  shall  be  a  senator  who  shall  not  have  attained  to  the 
age  of  thirty  years,  and  been  nine  years  a  citizen  of  the  United 
States,  and  who  shall  not,  when  elected,  be  an  inhabitant  of  that 
state  for  which  he  shall  be  chosen. 

The  vice-president  of  the  United  States  shall  be  president  of 
the  senate,  but  shall  have  no  vote,  unless  they  be  equally  divided. 

The  senate  shall  choose  their  other  officers,  and  also  a  presi*^ 
dent  jjro  tempore,  in  the  absence  of  the  vice-president,  or  when  he 
shall  exercise  the  office  of  president  of  the  United  States. 

The  senate  shall  have  the  sole  power  to  try  all  impeachments. 
When    sitting  for  that  purpose,  they  shall  be  on  oath   or  affirma- 
tion.      When   the    president   of    the  United   States  is  tried,  thie^ 
chief  justice  shall  preside :  and  no  person  shall  be  convicted  with- 
out the  concurrence  of  two-thirds  of  the  members  present. 

Judgment  in  cases  of  impeachment  shall  not  extend  further  than 
to  removal  from  office,  and  disqualification  to  hold  and  enjoy  any 
office  of  honour,  trust  or  profit  under  the  United  States  :  but  the 
party  convicted  shall  nevertheless  be  liable  and  subject  to  indict- 
ment, trial,  judgment  and  punishment,  according  to  law. 

Sec.  4.     The  tinjes,   places  and  manner  of  holding  elections 
for  senators  and  representatives,  shall  be  prescribed  in  each  state 
by  the  legislature  thereof;  but  the  congress  may  at   any  time  by 
64 


522  CONSTITUTION  OF  THE 

law  make  or  alter  such  regulations,  except  as  to  the  places  of 
choosing  senators. 

The  congress  shall  assemble  at  least  once  in  every  year,  and 
such  meeting  shall  be  on  the  first  Monday  in  December,  unless 
they  shall  by  law  appoint  a  different  day. 

Sec.  5.  Each  house  shall  be  the  judge  of  the  elections,  returns 
and  qualifications  of  its  own  members,  and  a  majority  of  each 
shall  constitute  a  quorum  to  do  business  ;  but  a  smaller  number 
may  adjourn  from  day  to  day,  and  may  be  authorised  to  compel 
the  attendance  of  absent  members,  in  such  manner,  and  under 
such  penalties  as  each  house  may  provide. 

Each  house  may  determine  the  rules  of  its  proceedings,  punish 
its  members  for  disorderly  behaviour,  and,  with  the  concurrence  of 
two  thirds,  expel  a  member. 

Each  house  shall  keep  a  journal  of  its  proceedings,  and  from 
time  to  time  publish  the  same,  excepting  such  part  as  may  in  their 
judgment  require  secrecy :  and  the  yeas  and  nays  of  the  members 
of  either  house  on  any  question  shall,  at  the  desire  of  one  fifth  of 
those  present,  be  entered  on  the  journal. 

Neither  house,  during  the  session  of  congress,  shall,  Avithout  the 
consent  of  the  other,  adjourn  for  more  than  three  days,  nor  to 
any  other  place  than  that  in  which  the  two  houses  shall  be  sit- 
ting. 

Sec.  6.  The  senators  and  representatives  shall  receive  a  com- 
pensation for  their  services,  to  be  ascertained  by  law,  and  paid  out 
of  the  treasury  of  the  United  States.  They  shall  in  all  cases,  ex- 
cept treason,  felony  ;  and  breach  of  the  peace,  be  privileged  from 
arrest  during  their  attendance  at  the  session  of  their  respective 
houses,  and  in  going  to  and  returning  from  the  same  ;  and  for  any 
speech  or  debate  in  either  house,  they  shall  not  be  questioned  in 
any  other  place. 

No  senator  or  respresentative  shall,  during  the  time  for  which 
he  was  elected,  be  appointed  to  any  civil  office  under  the  authority 
of  the  United  States,  which  shall  have  been  created,  or  the  emolu- 
ments whereof  shall  have  been  ihcreased  during  such  time  ;  and 
no  person  holding  any  office  under  the  United  States,  shall  be  a 
member  of  either  house  during  his  continuance  in  office. 

Sec.  7.  All  bills  for  raising  revenue  shall  originate  in  the 
house  of  representatives  ;  but  the  senate  may  propose  or  concur 
with  amendments  as  on  other  bills. 

Every  bill  which  shall  have  passed  the  house  of  representatives 
and  the  senate,  shall,  before  it  become  a  law,  be  presented  to  the 
president  of  the  United  States  ;  if  he  approve  he  shall  sign  it,  but 


UNITED  STATES.  523 

if  not  he  shall  return  it,  with  his  objections,  to  that  house  in  which 
it  shall  have  originated,  who  shall  enter  the  ohjcctions  at  large  on 
their  journal,  and  proceed  to  reconsider  it.  If  after  such  recon- 
sideration two  thirds  of  that  house  shall  agree  to  pass  the  bill,  it 
shall  be  sent,  together  with  the  objections,  to  the  other  house,  by 
which  it  shall  likewise  be  reconsidered,  and  if  approved  by  two 
thirds  of  that  house,  it  shall  become  a  law.  But  in  all  such  cases 
the  votes  of  both  houses  shall  be  determined  by  yeas  and  nays, 
and  the  names  of  the  persons  voting  for  and  against  the  bill  shall 
be  entered  on  the  journal  of  each  house  respectively.  If  any  bill 
shall  not  be  returned  by  the  president  within  ten  days  (Sundays 
excepted)  after  it  shall  have  been  presented  to  him,  the  same  shall 
be  a  law,  in  like  manner  as  if  he  had  signed  it,  unless  the  congress 
by  their  adjournment  prevent  its  return,  in  which  case  it  shall  not 
be  a  law. 

Every  order,  resolution,  or  vote  to  which  the  concurrence  of 
the  senate  and  house  of  representatives  may  be  necessary  (except 
on  a  question  of  adjournment)  shall  be  presented  to  the  president 
of  the  United  States  ;  and  before  the  same  shall  take  effect,  shall 
be  aj)proved  by  him,  or  being  disapproved  by  him,  shall  be  re- 
passed by  two  thirds  of  the  senate  and  house  of  representatives, 
according  to  the  rules  and  limitations  prescribed  in  the  case  of  a 
bill. 

Sec.  8.     The  congress  shall  have  power.... 

To  lay  and  collect  taxes,  duties,  imposts,  and  excises,  to  pay 
the  debts  and  provide  for  the  common  defence  and  general  wel- 
fare of  the  United  States ;  but  all  duties,  imposts  and  excises  shall 
be  uniform  throughout  the  United  States  ; 

To  borrow  money  on  the  credit  of  the  United  States ; 

To  regulate  commerce  with  foreign  nations,  and  among  the  sev- 
eral states,  and  with  the  Indian  tribes  ; 

To  establish  an  uniform  rule  of  naturalization  and  uniform 
laws  on  the  subject  of  bankruptcies  throughout  the  United  States ; 

To  coin  money,  regulate  the  value  thereof,  and  of  foreign  coin, 
and  fix  the  standard  of  weights  and  measures  ; 

To  provide  for  the  punishment  of  counterfeiting  the  securities 
and  current  coin  of  the  United  States  ; 

To  establish  post-offices  and  post-roads  ; 

To  promote  the  progress  of  science  and  useful  arts,  by  securing 
for  limited  times  to  authors  and  inventors  the  exclusive  right  to 
their  respective  writings  and  discoveries  ; 

To  constitute  tribunals  inferiour  to  the  supreme  court ;    to  de- 


524  CONSTITUTION  OF  THE 

fine  fend  punish  piracies  and  felonies  committed  on  the  high  geas, 
and  offences  against  the  Jaw  of  nations  ; 

To  declare  war,  grant  letters  of  marque  and  reprisal,  and  make 
rules  concerning  captures  on  land  and  water  ; 

To  raise  and  support  armies,  but  no  appropriation  of  money  to 
that  use  shall  be  for  a  longer  term  than  two  years  ; 

To  provide  and  maintain  a  navy  ; 

To  make  rules  for  the  government  and  regulation  of  the  land 
and  naval  forces  ; 

To  provide  for  calling  forth  the  militia  to  execute  the  laws  of 
the  union,  suppress  insurrections  and  repel  invasions  ; 

To  provide  for  organizing,  arming,  and  disciplining,  the  militia, 
and  for  governing  such  part  of  them  as  may  be  employed  in  the 
service  of  the  United  States,  reserving  to  the  states  respectively, 
the  appointment  of  the  officers,  and  the  authority  of  training  the 
rnilitia  according  to  the  discipline  prescribed  by  congress  ; 

To  exercise  exclusive  legislation  in  all  cases  whatsoever,  over 
such  district  (not  exceeding  ten  miles  square)  as  may,  by  cession 
of  particular  states,  and  the  acceptance  of  congress,  become  the 
seat  of  the  government  of  the  United  States,  and  to  exercise  like 
authority  over  all  places  purchased  by  the  consent  of  the  legisla- 
ture of  the  state  in  which  the  same  shall  be,  for  the  erection  of 
forts,  magazines,  arsenals,  dockyards  and  other  needful  buildings  ; 
and 

To  make  all  laws  which  shall  be  necessary  and  proper  for  car- 
rying into  execution  the  foregoing  powers,  and  all  other  powers 
vested  by  this  constitution  in  the  government  of  the  United  States, 
or  in  any  department  or  officer  thereof. 

Sec.  9.  The  migration  or  importation  of  such  persons  as  any 
of  the  states  now  existing  shall  think  proper  to  admit,  shall  not 
be  prohibited  by  the  congress  prior  to  the  year  one  thousand  eight 
hundred  and  eight,  but  a  tax  or  duty  may  be  imposed  on  such  im- 
portation, )iot  exceeding  ten  dollars  for  each  person. 

The  privilegs  of  the  writ  of  habeas  corpus  shall  not  be  suspend- 
ed, unless  when  in  cases  of  rebellion  or  invasion  the  public  safety 
may  require  it. 

No  bill  of  attainder  or  ex  post  farto  law  shall  be  passed. 

No  capitation,  or  other  direct  tax,  sliall  be  laid,  unless  in  pro- 
portion to  the  census  or  enumeration  herein  before  directed  to  be 
taken. 

No  tax  or  duty  shall  be  laid  on  articles  exported  from  any  state. 
No  preference  shall  be  given  by  any  regulation  of  commerce  or 
revenue  to  tlie  ports  of  one  state  over  those  of  another  :  nor  shall 


UNITED  STATES.  525 

vessels  bound  to,  or  from,  one  state,  be  obliged  to  enter,   clear,  or 
pay  duties  in  another. 

No  money  shall  be  drawn  from  the  treasury,  but  in  consequence 
of  appropriations  made  by  law  ;  and  a  regular  statement  and  ac- 
count of  the  receipts  and  expenditures  of  all  public  money  shall 
be  published  from  time  to  time. 

No  title  of  nobility  shall  be  granted  by  the  United  States  :  and 
no  person  holding  any  office  of  profit  or  trust  under  them,  shall, 
without  the  consent  of  the  congress,  accept  of  any  present,  emol- 
ument, oftice,  or  title,  of  any  kind  whatever,  from  any  king, 
prince,  or  foreign  state. 

Sec.  10.  No  state  shall  enter  into  any  treaty,  alliance,  or  con- 
federation ;  grant  letters  of  marque  and  reprisal ;  coin  money  ; 
emit  bills  of  credit ;  make  any  thing  but  gold  and  silver  coin  a 
tender  in  payment  of  debts  ;  pass  any  bill  of  attainder,  ex  post 
facto  law,  or  law  impairing  the  obligation  of  contracts,  or  grant 
any  title  of  nobility. 

No  state  shall,  without  the  consent  of  the  congress,  lay  any  im- 
posts or  duties  on  imports  or  exports,  except  what  may  be  abso- 
lutely necessary  for  executing  its  inspection  laws  :  and  the  nett 
produce  of  all  duties  and  imposts,  laid  by  any  state  on  imports  or 
exports,  shall  be  for  the  use  of  the  treasury  of  the  United  States; 
and  all  such  laws  shall  be  subject  to  the  revision  and  control  of 
the  congress.  No  state  shall,  without  the  consent  of  congress, 
lay  any  duty  of  tonnage,  keep  troops,  or  ships  of  war  in  time  of 
peace,  enter  into  any  agreement  or  compact  with  another  state, 
or  with  a  foreign  power,  or  engage  in  war,  unless  actually  invad- 
ed, or  in  sucb  imminent  danger  as  will  not  admit  of  delay. 

ARTICLE  II. 

Sec.  1.  The  executive  power  shall  be  vested  in  a  president  of 
the  United  States  of  America.  He  shall  hold  his  office  during  the 
term  of  four  years,  and,  together  with  the  vice-president,  chosen 
for  the  same  term,  be  elected  as  follows  ; 

Each  state  shall  appoint,  in  such  manner  as  the  legislature 
thereof  may  direct,  a  number  of  electors,  equal  to  the  whole  num- 
ber of  senators  and  representatives  to  which  the  state  may  be  en- 
titled in  the  congress:  but  no  senator  or  representative,  or  person 
holding  an  office  of  trust  or  profit  under  the  United  States,  shall 
be  appointed  an  elector. 

The  electors  shall  meet  in  their  respective  states,  and  vote  by 
ballot  for  two  persons,  of  whom  one  at  least  shall  not  be  an  in- 
habitant of  the  same  state  with  themselves.     And  they  shall  make 


526  CONSTITUTION  OF  THE 

a  list  of  all  the  persons  voted  for,  and  of  the  number  of  votes  for 
each  ;  which  list  they  shall  sign  and  certify,  and  transmit  sealed 
to  the  seat  of  the  government  of  the  United  States,  directed  to  the 
president  of  the  senate.  The  president  of  the  senate  shall,  in  the 
presence  of  the  senate  and  house  of  representatives,  open  all  the 
certificates,  and  the  votes  shall  then  be  counted.  The  person 
having  the  greatest  number  of  votes  shall  be  the  president,  if  such 
number  be  a  majority  of  the  whole  number  of  electors  appointed  ; 
and  if  there  be  more  than  one  who  have  such  majority,  and  have 
an  equal  number  of  votes,  then  the  house  of  representatives  shall 
immediately  choose  by  ballot  one  of  them  for  president ;  and  if 
no  person  have  a  majority,  then  from  the  five  highest  on  the  list 
the  said  house  shall  in  like  manner  choose  the  president.  But  in 
choosing  the  president,  the  votes  shall  be  taken  by  states,  the  rep- 
resentation from  each  state  having  one  vote  ;  a  quorum  for  this 
purpose  shall  consist  of  a  member  or  members  from  two  thirds  of 
the  states,  and  a  majority  of  all  the  states  shall  be  necessary  to  a 
choice.  In  every  case,  after  the  choice  of  the  president,  the  per- 
son having  the  greatest  number  of  votes  of  the  electors  shall  be 
the  vice-president.  But  if  there  should  remain  two  or  more  who 
have  equal  votes,  the  senate  shall  choose  from  them  by  ballot  the 
vice-president. 

The  congress  may  determine  the  time  of  choosing  the  electors, 
and  the  day  on  which  they  shall  give  their  votes ;  which  day  shall 
be  the  same  throughout  the  United  States. 

No  person  except  a  natural-born  citizen,  or  a  citizen  of  the 
United  States,  at  the  time  of  the  adoption  of  this  constitution, 
shall  be  eligible  to  the  office  of  president ;  neither  shall  any  per- 
son be  eligible  to  that  office,  who  shall  not  have  attained  to  the 
age  of  thirty-five  years,  and  been  fourteen  years  a  resident  within 
the  United  States. 

In  case  of  the  removal  of  the  president  from  office,  or  of  his 
death,  resignation,  or  inability  to  discharge  the  powers  and  duties 
of  the  said  office,  the  same  shall  devolve  on  the  vice-president,  and 
the  congress  may  by  law  provide  for  the  case  of  removal,  death, 
resignation  or  inability,  both  of  the  president  and  vice-president, 
declaring  what  officer  shall  then  act  as  president,  and  such  officer 
shall  act  accordingly,  until  the  disability  be  removed,  or  a  presi- 
dent shall  be  elected. 

The  president  shall,  at  stated  times,  receive  for  his  services,  a 
compensation,  which  shall  neither  be  increased  nor  diminished 
during  the  period  for  which  he  shall  have  been  elected,  and  he 


UNITED  STATES.  527 

shall  not  receive  within  that  period  any  other  emolument  from  the 
United  States,  or  any  of  them. 

Before  he  enter  on  the  execution  of  his  office,  lie  shall  take  the 
following  oath  or  affirmation  : — 

"  I  do  solemnly  swear  (or  affirm)  that  I  will  faithfully  execute  the 
*'  office  of  president  of  the  United  States,  and  will  to  the  best  of 
"  my  ability,  preserve,  protect  and  defend  the  constitution  of  the 
♦'United  States." 

Sec.  2.  The  president  shall  be  commander  in  chief  of  the 
army  and  navy  of  the  United  States,  and  of  the  militia  of  the 
several  states,  when  called  into  the  actual  service  of  the  United 
States ;  he  may  require  the  opinion,  in  writing,  of  the  principal 
officer  in  each  of  the  executive  departments,  upon  any  subject  re- 
lating to  the  duties  of  their  respective  offices,  and  he  shall  have 
power  to  grant  reprieves  and  pardons  for  offences  against  the 
United  States,  except  in  cases  of  impeachment. 

He  shall  have  power,  by  and  with  the  advice  and  consent  of 
the  senate,  to  make  treaties,  provided  two  thirds  of  the  senators 
present  concur  ;  and  he  shall  nominate,  and  by  and  with  the  advice 
and  consent  of  the  senate,  shall  appoint  ambassadors,  other  pub- 
lic ministers  and  consuls,  judges  of  the  supreme  court,  and  all 
other  officers  of  the  United  States,  whose  appointments  are  not 
herein  otherwise  provided  for,  and  which  shall  be  established  by 
law  :  but  the  congress  may  by  law  vest  the  appointment  of  such 
inferiour  officers,  as  they  think  proper,  in  the  president  alone,  in 
the  courts  of  law,  or  in  the  heads  of  departments. 

The  president  shall  have  power  to  fill  up  all  vacancies  that  may 
happen  during  the  recess  of  the  senate,  by  granting  commissions 
which  shall  expire  at  the  end  of  their  next  session. 

Sec.  3.  He  shall  from  time  to  time  give  to  the  congress  infor- 
mation of  the  state  of  the  union,  and  recommend  to  their  consider- 
ation such  measures  as  he  shall  judge  necessary  and  expedient ; 
he  may,  on  extraordinary  occasions,  convene  both  houses,  or 
either  of  them,  and  in  case  of  disagreement  between  them,  with 
respect  to  the  time  of  adjournment,  he  may  adjourn  them  to  such 
time  as  he  shall  think  proper ;  he  shall  receive  ambassadors  and 
other  public  ministers ;  he  shall  take  care  that  the  laws  be  faith- 
fully executed,  and  shall  commission  all  the  officers  of  the  United 
States. 

Sec.  4.  The  president,  vice-president  and  all  civil  officers  of 
the  United  States,  shall  be  removed  from  office  on  impeachment 
for,  and  conviction  of,  treason,  bribery,  or  other  high  crimes  and 
misdemeanors. 


528  CONSTITUTION  OF  THE 

ARTICLE  III. 

Sec.  1.  The  judicial  power  of  the  United  States,  shall  be  vest- 
ed in  one  supreme  court,  and  in  such  inferiour  courts  as  the  con- 
gress may  from  time  to  time  ordain  and  establish.  The  judges, 
both  of  the  supreme  and  inferiour  courts,  shall  hold  their  offices 
during  good  behaviour  and  shall,  at  stated  times,  receive  for  their 
services,  a  compensation,  which  shall  not  be  diminished  during 
their  continuance  in  office. 

Sec.  2.  The  judicial  power  shall  extend  to  all  cases,  in  law 
and  equity,  arising  under  this  constitution,  the  laws  of  the  United 
States,  and  treaties  made,  or  which  shall  be  made,  under  their  au- 
thority ; — to  all  cases  affecting  ambassadors,  other  public  ministers 
and  consuls  ; — to  all  cases  of  admiralty  and  maritime  jurisdic- 
tion ; — to  controversies  to  which  the  United  States  shall  be  a  par- 
ty ; — to  controversies  between  two  or  more  states  ; — between  a 
state  and  citizens  of  another  state  ; — between  citizens  of  diflTerent 
states  ; — between  citizens  of  the  same  state  claiming  lands  under 
grants  of  different  states,  and  between  a  state,  or  a  citizen  thereof, 
and  foreign   states,  citizens  or  subjects. 

In  all  cases  affecting  ambassadors,  other  public  ministers  and 
consuls,  and  those  in  which  a  state  shall  be  a  party,  the  supreme 
court  shall  have  original  jurisdiction.  In  all  the  other  cases  be- 
forementioned,  the  supreme  court  shall  have  appellate  jurisdiction, 
both  as  to  law  and  fact,  with  such  exceptions,  and  under  such  reg- 
ulations as  the  congress  shall  make. 

The  trial  of  all  crimes,  except  in  cases  of  impeachment,  shall  be 
by  jury  ;  and  such  trial  shall  be  held  in  the  state  where  the  said 
crimes  shall  have  been  committed ;  but  when  not  committed  with- 
in any  state,  the  trial  shall  be  at  such  place  or  places  as  the  con- 
gress may  by  law  have  directed. 

Sec  3.  Treason  against  the  United  States,  shall  consist  only 
in  levying  war  against  them,  or  in  adhering  to  their  enemies,  giv- 
ing them  aid  and  comfort.  No  person  shall  be  convicted  of  trea- 
son unless  on  testimony  of  two  witnesses  to  the  same  overt  act,  or 
on  confession  in  open  court. 

The  congress  shall  have  power  to  declare  the  punishment  of 
treason,  but  no  attainder  of  treason  shall  work  corruption  of 
blood,  or  forfeiture  except  during  the  life  of  the  person  attainted. 

ARTICLE   IV. 

Sec  1.  Full  faith  and  credit  shall  be  given  in  each  state  to 
the  public  acts,  records,  and  judicial  proceedings  of  every  other 
state.     And  the  congress  may  by  general  laws  prescribe  the  man- 


UNITED  STATES.  529 

her  in  which  such  acts,  records  and  proceedings  shall  be  proved, 
and  the  effect  thereof. 

Sec.  2.  The  citizens  of  each  state  shall  be  entitled  to  all  privi- 
leges and  immunities  of  citizens  in  the  several  states. 

A  person  charged  in  any  state  with  treason,  felony,  or  other 
crime,  who  shall  flee  from  justice,  and  be  found  in  another  state, 
shall,  on  demand  of  the  executive  authority  of  the  state  from  which 
he  fled,  be  delivered  up,  to  be  removed  to  the  state  having  juris- 
diction of  the  crime. 

No  person  held  to  service  or  labour  in  one  state,  under  the  laws 
thereof,  escaping  into  another,  shall,  in  consequence  of  any  law 
or  regulation  therein,  be  discharged  from  such  service  or  labour, 
but  shall  be  delivered  up  on  claim  of  the  party  to  whom  such  ser- 
vice or  labour  may  be  due. 

Sec.  3.  New  states  may  be  admitted  by  the  congress  into  this 
union  ;  but  no  new  state  shall  be  formed  or  erected  within  the  ju- 
risdiction of  any  other  state  ;  nor  any  state  be  formed  by  the  junc- 
tion of  two  or  more  states,  or  parts  of  states  m  ithout  the  consent  of 
the  legislatures  of  the  states  concerned  as  well  as  of  the  congress. 
The  congress  shall  have  power  to  dispose  of  and  make  all  need- 
ful rules  and  regulations  respecting  the  territory  or  other  proper- 
ty belonging  to  the  United  States  ;  and  nothing  in  this  constitution 
shall  be  so  construed  as  to  prejudice  any  claims  of  the  United 
States,    or  of  any  particular  state. 

Sec.  4.  The  United  States  shall  guaranty  to  every  state  in 
this  union  a  republican  form  of  government,  and  shall  protect 
each  of  them  against  invasion ;  and  on  application  of  the  legis- 
lature, or  of  the  executive  (when  the  legislature  cannot  be  con- 
vened) against  domestic  violence. 

ARTICLE  V. 
The  congress,  whenever  two  thirds  of  both  houses  shall  deem 
it  necessary,  shall  propose  amendments  to  this  constitution,  or,  on 
the  application  of  the  legislatures  of  two  thirds  of  the  several 
states,  shall  call  a  convention  for  proposing  amendments,  which, 
in  either  case,  shall  be  valid  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  as  part  of 
this  constitution,  when  ratified  by  the  legislatures  in  three  fourths 
of  the  several  states,  or  by  conventions  in  three  fourths  thereof, 
as  the  one  or  the  other  mode  of  ratification  may  be  proposed  by 
the  congress  ;  provided  that  no  amendment  which  may  be  made 
prior  to  the  year  one  thousand  eight  hundred  and  eight  shall  in 
any  manner  affect  the  first  and  fourth  clauses  in  the  ninth  section 
of  the  first  article  ;  and  that  no  state,  without  its  consent,  shall  be 
deprived  of  its  equal  suffrage  in  the  senate. 
65 


530  CONSTITUTION  OF  THE 

ARTICLE  VI. 

All  debts  contracted  and  engagements  entered  into,  before  the 
adoption  of  this  constitution,  shall  be  as  valid  against  the  United 
States  under  this  constitution,  as  under  the  confederation. 

This  constitution  and  the  laws  of  the  United  States  which  shall 
be  made  in  pursuance  thereof;  and  all  treaties  made,  or  which 
shall  be  made,  under  the  authority  of  the  United  States,  shall  be 
the  supreme  law  of  the  land  ;  and  the  judges  in  every  state  shall 
be  bound  thereby,  any  thing  in  the  constitution  or  laws  of  any 
state  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding. 

The  senators  and  representatives  before  mentioned,  and  the 
members  of  the  several  state  legislatures,  and  all  executive  and 
judicial  officers,  both  of  the  United  States  and  of  the  several  states, 
shall  be  bound  by  oath  or  affirmation,  to  support  this  constitution ; 
but  no  religious  test  shall  ever  be  required  as  a  qualification  to 
any  office  or  public  trust  under  the  United  States. 

ARTICLE  VIL 

The  ratification  of  the  conventions  of  nine  states  shall  be  suf- 
ficient for  the  establishment  of  this  constitution  between  the  states 
so  ratifying  the  same. 

Done  in  convention,  by  the  unanimous  consent  of  the  states 
present,  the  seventeenth  day  of  September,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord 
one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  eighty-seven  and  of  the  indepen- 
dence of  the  United  States  of  America  the  twelfth.  In  witness 
whereof  we  have  hereunto  subscribed  our  names. 

GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  f  President,  and  Deputi/ 

{        jrom  Virginia. 

T\T  ^  IT        !•  (      John  Langdon, 

J\ew  Hampshire.  {       -xr  /-. 

■^  (      Nicholas  Gilman. 

Massachusetts  f      Nathaniel  Gorham, 

{      KuFus  King. 

Connecticut,  j      William  Samuel  Johnson. 

(       Roger  Sherman. 

New  York,  Alexander  Hamilton. 

r  William  Livingston, 

T^      J  j  David  Brearley, 

^'  j  William  Patterson, 

(_  Jonathan  Dayton. 

Benjamin  Franklin, 

Thomas  Mifflin, 

Robert  Morris, 

Tt  J       •  {       George  Clymer, 

T'ennsyfvama.  -s      m  r^ 

''  »  IhOMAS  JblTZSIMONS, 

Jared  Ingersoll, 
James  Wilson, 

GOUVERNEUR  MoRRIS. 


UNITED  STATES. 


531 


Delaware, 

Maryland^ 
Virginia. 
North  Carolina, 

South  Carolina. 

Georgia. 
Attest, 


I 


George  Read, 
Gunning  Bedford,  jun., 
John  Dickinson, 
Richard  Bassett, 
Jacob  Broom. 

James  M'Henry, 

Daniel  of  St.  Tho.  Jenifer, 

Daniel  Carroll. 

John  Blair, 

James  Madison,  jun. 

William  Blount, 
Richard  Dobbs  Spaight, 
Hu.  Williamson. 

J.  Rutledge, 

C.  Cotesworth  Pinckney, 
Charles  Pinckney, 
Pierce  Butler. 

William  Few, 
Abraham  Baldwin. 

WILLIAM  JACKSON,  Secretary. 


IN  CONVENTION, 

Monday,  September  17,  1787. 
present 
The  states  of  New  Hampshire,   Massachusetts,    Connecticut,   Mr. 
Hamilton  from  New  York,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Delaware, 
Maryland,  Virginia,  North  Carolina,  South  Carolina,  and  Geor- 
gia. 

Resolved,  That  the  preceding  constitution  be  laid  before  the 
United  States  in  congress  assembled  ;  and  that  it  is  the  opinion  of 
this  convention,  that  it  should  afterwards  be  submitted  to  a  con- 
vention of  delegates,  chosen  in  each  state  by  the  people  thereof, 
under  the  recommendation  of  its  legislature,  for  their  assent  and 
ratification;  and  that  each  convention  assenting  to,  and  ratifying 
the  same,  should  give  notice  thereof  to  the  United  States  in  Con- 
gress assembled. 

Resolved,  That  it  is  the  opinion  of  this  convention,  that  as  soon 
as  the  conventions  of  nine  states  shall  have  ratified  this  constitu- 
tion, the  United  States  in  congress  assembled,  should  fix  a  day  on 
which  electors  should  be  appointed  by  the  states  which  shall  have 
ratified  the  same,  and  a  day  on  which  the  electors  should  assem- 
ble to  vote  for  the  president,  and  the  time  and  place  for  commenc- 


532  CONSTITUTION  OF  THE 

ing  proceedings  under  tins  constitution  ;  that  after  such  publica- 
tion, the  electors,  should  be  appointed,  and  the  senators  and  rep- 
resentatives elected  ;  that  the  electors  should  meet  on  the  day 
fixed  for  the  election  of  the  president,  and  should  transmit  their 
votes,  certified,  signed,  sealed,  and  directed,  as  tlie  constitution 
requires,  to  the  secretary  of  the  United  States  in  congress  assem- 
bled ;  that  the  senators  and  representatives  should  convene  at  the 
time  and  place  assigned  ;  that  the  senators  should  appoint  a  presi- 
dent of  the  senate,  for  the  sole  purpose  of  receiving,  opening,  and 
counting  the  votes  for  president ;  and  that  after  he  shall  be  chosen, 
the  congress,  together  with  the  president,  should,  without  de- 
lay, proceed  to  execute  this  constitution. 

By  the  unanimous  order  of  tlie  convention. 

GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  President. 

William  Jackson,  Secretary. 


IN  CONVENTION, 

September  17,  1787. 
"  Sir, 

"  We  have  now  the  honour  to  submit  to  the  consideration  of  the 
"United  States  in  congress  assembled,  that  constitution  which  has 
"  appeared  to  us  the  most  advisable. 

"The  friends  of  our  country  have  long  seen  and  desired,  that 
"  the  power  of  making  war,  peace,  and  treaties  :  that  of  levying 
"  money  and  regulating  commerce;  and  the  correspondent  ex- 
*'  ecutive  and  judicial  authorites,  should  be  fully  and  effectually 
"vested  in  the  general  government  of  the  union  :  but  the  impro- 
"  priety  of  delegating  such  extensive  trusts  to  one  body  of  men  is 
"evideijt.  Hence  results  the  necessity  of  a  different  organiza- 
"  tion. 

"  It  is  obviously  impracticable  in  the  federal  government  of  these 
"  states,  to  secure  all  rights  of  independent  sovereignty  to  each, 
"  and  yet  provide  for  the  interest  and  safety  of  all.  Individuals 
"  entering  into  society  must  give  up  a  share  of  liberty  to  preserve 
"  the  rest.  The  magnitude  of  the  sacrifice  must  depend  as  well 
"on  situation  and  circimistance,  as  on  the  object  to  be  obtained. 
"  It  is  at  all  times  difficult  to  draw  with  precision  the  line  between 
"  those  rights  which  must  be  surrendered,  and  those  which  may  be 
"  reserved  ;  and  on  the  present  occasion  this  difficulty  was  increas- 
"ed  by  a  difference  among  the  several  states  as  to  their  situation, 
"  extent,  habits,  and  particular  interests. 

"  In  all  cur  deliberations  on  this  subject,  we  kept  steadily  in  our 


UNITED  STATES.  533 

"  view  that  which  appears  to  us  the  greatest  interest  of  every  true 
"  American,  the  consolidation  of  our  union,  in  which  is  involved 
"  our  prosperity,  felicity,  safety,  perhaps  our  national  existence. 
"  This  important  consideration,  seriously  and  deeply  impressed 
*'  on  our  minds,  led  each  state  in  the  convention  to  be  less  rigid 
"  on  points  of  inferiour  magnitude,  than  might  have  been  other- 
"  wise  expected  ;  and  thus  the  constitution,  which  we  now  present, 
"  is  the  result  of  a  spirit  of  amity,  and  of  that  mutual  deference 
"  and  concession  which  the  peculiarity  of  our  political  situation 
•'  rendered  indispensable. 

"  That  it  will  meet  the  full  and  entire  approbation  of  every 
"  state,  is  not  perhaps  to  be  expected  ;  but  each  will  doubtless  con- 
*'  sider,  that  had  her  interests  been  alone  consulted,  the  conse- 
"  quences  might  have  been  particularly  disagreeable  or  injurious 
"to  others:  that  it  is  liable  to  as  few  exceptions  as  could  reason- 
*'  ably  have  been  expected,  we  hope  and  believe  :  that  it  may  pro- 
*' mote  the  lasting  welfai-e  of  that  country  so  dear  to  us  all,  and 
*' secure  her  freedom  and  happiness,  is  our  most  ardent  wish. 

"  With  great  respect,  we  have  the  honour  to  be,  sir,  your  ex- 
*'cellency's  most  obedient  and  humble  servants." 

GEORGE  WASHINGTON,  President. 
By  unanimous  order  of  the  convention. 

His  excellency  the  President  of  Congress. 


AMENDMENTS. 

[The  conventions  of  a  number  of  the  stales  having,  at  the  time  of  their  adopting  the 
constitution,  expressed  a  desire,  in  order  to  prevent  misconstruction  or  abuse  of  its  powers, 
that  further  declaratory  and  restrictive  clauses  should  be  added,  congress,  at  the  session 
begun  and  held  at  the  city  of  New  York,  on  Wednesday,  the  4lh  of  March,  1789,  propos- 
ed to  the  legislatures  of  the  several  states  twelve  amendments,  ten  of  which  only  were 
adopted.    They  are  the  ten  first  following.] 

ARTICLE  I. 

Congress  shall  make  no  law  respecting  an  establishment  of  re- 
ligion, or  prohibiting  the  free  exercise  thereof;  or  abridging  the 
freedom  of  speech,  or  of  the  press  ;  or  the  right  of  the  people 
peaceably  to  assemble,  and  to  petition  the  government  for  a  re- 
dress of  grievances. 

ARTICLE  n. 

A  well-regulated  militia  being  necessary  to  the  security  of  a 
free  state,  the  right  of  the  people  to  keep  and  bear  arms  shall  not 
be  infringed. 

ARTICLE  in. 

No  soldier  shall,  in  time  of  peace,  be  quartered  in  any  house 


534  CONSTITUTION  OF  THE 

without  the  consent  of  the  owner ;  nor  in  time  of  war,  but  in  a 
manner  to  be  prescribed  by  law. 

ARTICLE  IV. 

The  right  of  the  people  to  be  secure  in  their  persons,  houses, 
papers,  and  effects,  against  unreasonable  searches  and  seizures, 
shall  not  be  violated,  and  no  warrant  shall  issue,  but  upon  probable 
cause,  supported  by  oath  or  affirmation,  and  particularly  describ- 
ing the  place  to  be  searched,  and  the  persons  or  things  to  be  seized. 

ARTICLE  V. 

No  person  shall  be  held  to  answer  for  a  capital  or  otherwise  in- 
famous crime,  unless  on  a  presentment  or  indictment  of  a  grand 
jury,  except  in  cases  arising  in  the  land  or  naval  forces,  or  in  the 
militia  when  in  actual  service  in  time  of  war  or  public  danger  ; 
nor  shall  any  person  be  subject  for  the  same  offence  to  be  twice 
put  in  jeopardy  of  life  or  limb  ;  nor  shall  be  compelled  in  any 
criminal  case  to  be  a  witness  against  himself;  nor  be  deprived  of 
life,  liberty,  or  property  without  due  process  of  law ;  nor  shall 
private  property  be  taken  for  public  use  without  just  compensation. 

ARTICLE  VI. 

In  all  criminal  prosecutions  the  accused  shall  enjoy  the  right  to 
a  speedy  and  public  trial,  by  an  impartial  jury  of  the  state  and 
district  wherein  the  crime  shall  have  been  committed,  which  dis- 
trict shall  have  been  previously  ascertained  by  law,  and  to  be  in- 
formed of  the  nature  and  cause  of  the  accusation ;  to  be  confront- 
ed with  the  witnesses  against  him  to  have  compulsory  process  for 
obtaining  witnesses  in  his  favour,  and  to  have  the  assistance  of 
counsel  for  his  defence. 

ARTICLE  VII. 

In  suits  at  common  law,  where  the  value  in  controversy  shall 
exceed  twenty  dollars,  the  right  of  trial  by  jury  shall  be  preserv- 
ed ;  and  no  fact  tried  by  a  jury  shall  be  otherwise  reexamined  in 
any  court  of  the  United  States,  than  according  to  the  rules  of  the 
common  law. 

ARTICLE  VIIL 

Excessive  bail  shall  not  be  required,  nor  excessive  fines  impos- 
ed, nor  cruel  and  unusual  punishments  inflicted. 

ARTICLE  IX. 

The  enumeration  in  the  constitution,  of  certain  rights,  shall  not 
be  construed  to  deny  or  disparage  others  retained  by  the  people. 


UNITED  STATES.  535 

ARTICLE  X. 

The  powers  not  delegated  to  the  United  States  by  the  constitu- 
tion, nor  prohibited  by  it  to  the  states,  are  reserved  to  the  states 
respectively,  or  to  the  people. 

ARTICLE  XI. 

The  judicial  power  of  the  United  States  shall  not  be  construed 
to  extend  to  any  suit  in  law  or  equity,  commenced  or  prosecuted 
against  one  of  the  United  States  by  citizens  of  another  state,  or 
by  citizens  or  subjects  of  any  foreign  state. 

ARTICLE  XIL 

The  electors  shall  meet  in  their  respective  states,  and  vote  by 
ballot  for  president  and  vice-president,  one  of  whom,  at  least, 
shall  not  be  an  inhabitant  of  the  same  state  with  themselves  ;  they 
shall  name  in  their  ballots  the  person  voted  for  as  president,  and 
in  distinct  ballots  the  person  voted  for  as  vice-president :  and  they 
shall  make  distinct  lists  of  all  persons  voted  for  as  president,  and 
of  all  persons  voted  for  as  vice-president,  and  of  the  number  of 
votes  for  each,  which  lists  they  shall  sign  and  certify,  and  transmit 
sealed  to  the  seat  of  the  government  of  the  United  States,  direct- 
ed to  the   president  of  the  senate  ;    the   president  of   the  senate 
shall,  in  the  presence  of  the  senate  and  house  of  representatives, 
open  all  the  certificates,  and  the  votes  shall  then  be  counted :  the 
persons  having  the  greatest  number  of  votes  for  president,  shall 
be  the  president,  if  such  number  be  a  majority  of  the  whole  num- 
ber of  electors  appointed ;  and  if  no  person  have  such  majority, 
then  from  the  persons  having  the  highest  numbers,  not  exceeding 
three,  on  the  list  of  those  voted  for  as  president,  the  house  of  rep- 
resentatives shall  choose  immediately,  by  ballot,  the  president. 
But  in  choosing  the  president,  the  votes  shall  be  taken  by  states, 
the  representation  from  each  state  having  one  vote  ;  a  quorum  for 
this  purpose  shall  consist  of  a  member  or  members  from  two  thirds 
of  the  states,  and  a  majority  of  all  the  states  shall  be  necessary  to 
a  choice.     And  if  the  house  of  representatives  shall  not  choose  a 
president  whenever  the  right  of  choice  shall  devolve  upon  them, 
before  the  fourth  day  of  March  next  following,  then  the  vice-presi- 
dent shall  act  as  president  as  in  the  case  of  the  death  or  other 
constitutional  disability  of  the  president. 

The  person  having  the  greatest  number  of  votes  as  vice-presi- 
dent, shall  be  the  vice-president,  if  such  number  be  a  majority  of 
the  whole  number  of  electors  appointed  :  and  if  no  person  have  a 
majority,  then  from  the  two  highest  numbers  on  the  list,  the  senate 


536     CONSTITUTION  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES. 

shall  shoose  the  vice-president :  a  quorum  for  the  purpose  shall 
consist  of  two  thirds  of  the  whole  number  of  senators,  and  a  ma- 
jority of  the  whole  number  shall  be  necessary  to  a  choice. 

But  no  person  constitutionally  ineligible  to  the  office  of  presi- 
dent, shall  be  eligible  to  that  of  vice-president  of  the  United 
States. 

[Note... .The  eleventh  article  of  the  amendments  to  the  constitution  was  proposed  at 
the  second  session  of  the  third  congress  3  the  twelfth  article,  at  the  first  session  of  the 
eigfhth  congress.] 


INDEX. 


NO.   I.  PAGfi- 

Introduction,  -  -  -  -  -  '  ' 

NO.  II. 

Concerning  dangers  from  foreign  force  and  influence,  -  -        10 

NO.  III. 
The  sanic  subject  continued,  »  -  .  -  -  14 

NO.  IV. 
Tlie  same  subject  continued,  .  .  -  -  -  18 

NO.  V. 
The  same  subject  continued,  -  -  -  -  -  22 

NO.  VI. 

Concerning  dangers  from  war  between  the  states,  -  -  25 

NO.  VII. 
The  subject  continued,  and  particular  causes  enumerated,  -  30 

NO.  VIII. 
The  effects  of  internal  war  in  producing  standing  armies,  and  other 
institutions  unfriendly  to  liberty,  ...  -  35 

NO.  IX. 

The  utility  of  the  union  as  a  safeguard  against  domestic  faction   and 
insurrection,  .-..---40 

NO.  X. 
The  same  subject  continued,  ----..  45 

NO.  XI. 

The  utility  of  the  union  in  respect  to  commerce  and  a  navy,  -         52 

NO.  XII. 
The  utility  of  the  union  in  respect  to  revenue,  -  -  -        67 

NO.  XIII. 
The  same  subject  continued,  with  a  view  to  economy,  -  -       62 

66 


638  INDEX. 

NO.  XIV. 
An  objection  drawn  from  the  extent  of  country  answered,  -  64 

NO.  XV. 

Concerning  the  defects  of  the  present  confederation,  in  relation  to  the 
principle  of  legislation  for  the  states  in  their  collective  capacities,       69 

NO.  XVI. 

The  same  subject  continued,  in  relation  to  the  same  principles,  -      76 

NO.  XVII. 
The  subject  continued,  and  illustrated  by  examples,  to  show  the  ten- 
dency of  federal  governments,  rather  to  anarchy  among  the  mem- 
bers, than  tyranny  in  the  head,  -  -  -  -  81 

NO.  XVIII. 

The  subject  continued,  with  further  examples,  -  -  -        85 

NO.  XIX. 

The  subject  continued,  with  further  examples,  -  -  -       90 

NO.  XX. 

The  subject  continued,  with  further  examples,  -  -  -       95 

NO.  XXI. 

Further  defects  of  the  present  constitution,  -  -  -  99 

NO.  XXII. 
The  same  subject  continued,  and  concluded,  *  -  -         104 

NO.  XXIII. 

The  necessity  of  a  government,  at  least  equally  energetic  with  t^e  one 
proposed,  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  112 

NO.  XXIV. 

The  subject  continued,  with  an  answer  to  an  objection  concerning 
standing  armies,  -  -  -  -  -  --116 

NO.  XXV. 

The  subject  continued,  with  the  same  view,  -  -  -  120 

NO.  XXVI. 
The  subject  continued,  with  the  same  view,  -  -  «  125 

NO.  XXVII. 
The  subject  continued,  with  the  same  view,  ...  130 

NO.  XXVIII. 
The  same  subject  continued,  -----  133 

NO.  XXIX. 

Concerning  the  militia,  .-.---       137 


INDEX.  539 

NO,  XXX. 
Concerning  taxation,  ------  142 

NO.  xxxr. 

The  same  subject  continued,  -----  146 

NO.  XXXII. 
The  same  subject  continued,  -----  150 

NO.  XXXIII. 
The  same  subject  continued,  -----  154 

NO.  XXXIV. 
The  same  subject  continued,  -  -  -  k  .  157 

NO.  XXXV. 

The  same  subject  continued,  -----  152 

NO.  XXXVl. 
The  same  subject  continued,  -  .  -  -  -  167 

NO.  XXXVII. 

Concerning-  the  difficulties  which  the  convention  must  have  experienc- 
ed in  the  formation  of  a  proper  plan,  _  -  .  .      174 

NO.  XXXVIII. 

The  subject  continued,  and  the  incoherence  of  the  objections  to  the 
plan  exposed,  -  -  -  -  -  -  -180 

NO.  XXXIX. 

The  conformity  of  the  plan  to  republican  principles :  an  objection  in 
respect  to  the  powers  of  the  convention,  examined,  -  -      187 

NO.  XL. 
The  same  objection  further  examined,  -  _  -  -       193 

NO.  XLI. 
General  view  of  the  powers  proposed  to  be  vested  in  the  union,        -     200 

NO.  XLII. 
The  same  view  continued,  .-_.--  2O8 

NO.  XLIII. 
The  same  view  continued,  ------    215 

NO.  XLIV. 
The  same  view  continued  and  concluded,  -  -  k  223 

NO.  XLV. 

A  further  discussion  of  the  supposed  danger  from  the  powers  of  the 
aulon,  to  the  state  governments,  -  .  .  .  229 


540  INDEX. 

NO.  XLVI. 

The  subject  of  the  last  paper  resumed  ;  with  an  examination  of  the 
comparative  means  of  influence  of  the  federal  and  state  govern- 
ments, -  --  -  -  -  -  -       234 

NO.  XLVII. 

The  meaning  of  the  maxim,  which  requires  a  separation  of  the  depart- 
ments of  power,  examined  and  ascertained,  .  ,  -       2-10 

NO.  XLVIII. 

The  same  subject  continued,  with  a  view  to  the  means  of  giving  effica- 
cy in  practice  to  that  maxim,  .  ,  .  _  -      247 

NO.  XLIX. 

The  same  subject  continued,  with  the  same  view,  -  -  251 

NO.  L. 
The  same  subject  continued,  with  the  same  view,  -  -  255 

NO.  LI. 
The  same  subject  continued,  with  the  same  view,  and  concluded,        -    258 

NO.  LII. 

Concerning  the  house  of  representatives,  with  a  view  to  the  qualifica- 
tions of  the  electors  and  elected,  and  the  time  of  service  of  the  mem- 
bers, .-------  262 

NO.  LIII. 

The  same  subject  continued,  with  a  view  of  the  term  of  service  of  the 
members,  .,.-----      266 

NO.  LIV. 

The  same  subject  continued,  with  a  view  to  the  ratio  of  representation,  271 

NO.  LV. 
The  same  subject  continued,  in  relation  to  the  total  number  of  the 
body, 276 

NO.  LVI. 

The  same  subject  continued,  in  relation  to  the  same  point,  -  280 

NO,  LVII. 

The  same  subject  continued,  in  relation  to  the  supposed  tendency  of 
the  plan  of  tiie  convention  to  elevate  the  few  above  the  many,        -    2S4 

NO.  LVIII. 
The  same  subject  continued,  in  relation  to  the  future  augmentation  of 
the  me«»bers,  "  .  .  .  -  -        289 

NO.  LIX. 
Concerning  the  regulation  of  elections,  ....     294 

NO.  LX. 
The  same  subject  continued,  .....  29S 


INDEX.  541 

NO.  LXI. 

The  same  subject  continued,  and  concluded,  ...  S03 

NO.  LXII. 
Concerning  the  constitution  of  the  senate,  with  regard   to  tlie  qualifi- 
cations of  the  members  ;  the  manner  of  appointing-  them  ;  the  equal- 
ity of  representation  ;  the  number  of  the  senators  ;  and  the  duration 
of  tlieir  appointments,  ...--_     307 

NO.  LXIII. 
A  further  view  of  the  constitution  of  the  senate,  in  regard  to  the  du- 
ration of  the  appointment  of  its  members,  .  -  -  312 

NO.  LXIV. 
A  further  view  of  the  constitution  of  the  senate,  in  regard  to  the  pow- 
er of  making  treaties,  ...---     319 
NO.  LXV. 

A  further  view  of  the  constitution  of  the  senate,  in  relation  to  its  ca- 
pacity as  a  court  for  the  trial  of  impeachments,  -  -  324 

NO.  Lxvr. 

The  same  subject  continued,  ....  -  329 

NO.  LXVII. 

Concerning  the  constitution  of  the  president :  a  gross  attempt  to  mis- 
represent this  part  of  the  plan  detected,  ...  334 

NO.  LXVIII. 

The  view  of  the  constitution  of  the  president  continued,  in  relation  to 
the  mode  of  appointment,  -  -  -  -  -  338 

NO.  LXIX. 
The  same  view  continued,  with  a  comparison  between   the   president 
and  the  king  of  Great  Britain,  on  the  one  hand,  and   the  governour 
of  New  York  on  the  other,  -  -  -  -  -  3tl 

NO.  LXX. 
The  same  view  continued,  in  relation  to  the  unitj'  of  the  executive, 
and  with  an  examination  of  the  project  of  an  executive  council,     -    318 

NO.  LXXI. 

The  same  view  continued,  in  regard  to  the  duration  of  the  office,       -     355 

NO.  LXXII. 

The  same  view  continued,  in  regard  to  the  reeligibility  of   the  presi- 
dent, ...-----  359 
NO.  LXXIII. 

The  same  view  continued,  in  relation  to  the  provisions  concerning 
support,  and  the  power  of  the  negative,  ...  363 

NO.  LXXIV. 
The  same  view  continued,  in  relation  to  the  command  of  the  national 
forces,  and  the  power  of  pardoning,  ....       309 


542  INDEX. 

NO.  LXXV. 

The  same  view  continued,  in  relation  to  the  power  of  making  treaties,  371 

NO.  LXXVI. 

The  same  view  continued,  in  relation  to  the  appointment  of  the  offi- 
cers of  the  government,  ...  -  -  375 

NO.  LXXVII. 

The  view  of  the  constitution  of  the  president  concluded,  with  a  further 
consideration  of  the  power  of  appointment,  and  a  concise  examina- 
tion of  his  remaining  powers,  -----     380 

NO.  LXXVIII. 

A  view  of  the  constitution  of  the  judicial  department  in  relation  to  the 
tenure  of  good  behaviour,  -  -  -  -  ►  384 

NO.  LXXIX. 

A  further  view  of  the  judicial  department,  in  relation  to  the  provisions 
for  the  support  and  responsibility  of  the  judges,  -  -  391 

NO.  LXXX. 

A  further  view  of  the  judicial  department,  in  relation  to  the  extent  of 
its  powers,  .-..---  393 

NO.  Lxxxr. 

A  further  view  of  the  judicial  department,  in  relation  to  the  distribu- 
tion of  its  authority,  ------         399 

NO.  LXXXII. 

A  further  view  of  the  judicial  department,  in  reference  to  some  mis- 
cellaneous questions,  ------        408 

NO.  LXXXIII. 
A  further  view  of  the  judicial  department,  in  relation  to  the  trial  by 
jury, 411 

NO.  LXXXIV. 

Concerning  several  miscellaneous  objections,  .  -  -       423 

NO.  LXXXV. 
Conclusion,  ------.,-      432 


APPENDIX. 

The  letters  of  Pacificus,            .--._.  439 

The  letters  of  Helvidius,                 -----  474 

The  original  articles  of  confederation,              -            .            -            -  510 

Constitution  of  the  United  States,            ....  520 
